---
title: Items for DQ Characters
date: March 21, 2024
table-of-contents: true
numbersections: true
---

# Jedburgh

## Box of Enhancement

This small wooden box is 1ft in each dimension. An item put in the box
for a full 24 hours will be enhanced, any of the items random effect
will be maximised (i.e. any D roll will be a 10).  Only one item may
be enhanced at any one time and must be used before the box can be to
use used again.

(GMs discretion on use)

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820


## Strength of Stone – target modification 

When Strength of Stone is cast upon Marco and Jedburgh, they may
choose to split the ranks across EN and STR. i.e. a R10 spell may give
them +8EN and +2STR.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Ultimate Outdoors Manual

This read must study this book for a week and then will permanently
gain +5% to all ranger base chances.  After it is read the book will
disappear [Used].

## Ribbon of Clarity

This is a brightly striped rank 8 silk ribbon made by Athena's lesser
handmidens.

It will add 12% to the wearer's magic resistance vs general knowledge
spells of the College of Sorceries of the Mind.

The ribbon must be tied into the wearer's head hair, and takes one day
(24 hours) to adjust to the wearer before the bonus will apply.

## Brided Lanyard

This is a rank 8 metallic black braid formed from a repetitive series
of complex knots made by Athena's lesser handmaidens.

The wielder will never involuntarily drop the weapon to which the
braid is attached, and can choose to ignore disarm attempts for this
weapon.

The ribbon must be tied onto a specific weapon (it will not impede
use) and takes one day (24 hours) to adjust to the wapon before
bonuses will apply.

## Liquid Moonlight

This small vial of liquid contains a distillation that confers extra
potency to blades when upon them.  It must be applied to a blade under
the full moon and retains its properties till the next full moon.
During this time the blade will glisten like moonlight upon water, and
will do double damage to shapeshifters of any type and in any form,
including lycanthropes, etc (doppelgangers included).  This may be
placed on magical weapons (within reason) [Used].

## Dark Vison

Jedburgh has gained the talents of Dark Vision (as per Celestial
College spell) and Spirit Vision (can see disembodied spirits).

## Spectal Weapons

Jedburgh has a hand & a half, glaive, short sword and two dagger with
Rank 19 Spectral Weapon permanently on them.

## Glaive of Flame

This glaive is a magic weapon based upon a Rank 4 weaponsmithed (+1
damage) silvered blade.  It has obviously been rehafted several times
(it may not be rehfted as any other type of weaopon and have the
magical effects).  In addition it is imbused with a very old Weapon of
Flames style of magic.  The original intention is to be flaming all
the time but over the last 3,000 years the magic has waned somewhat
until now the magic nees some assistance to get going.  The blade must
be lit by some means before the magic will take affect.  Any magical
flame or ignition talent will automatically start the magic in one
pulse as will a small campefire sized flame.  Sparks, such as from a
tinderbox, have a 33% change of igniting the weapon per pulse and a
candle will have a 50% chance of igniting the glaive per pulse.

One lit the glaive will burn for 5 minutes and cannot be used again
for 3 hours.  Whilst burning the glaive is under the effect of a Rank
10 Weapon of Flames spell with all the normal benefits, i.e. +4
magical damage and +10% to Hit (+10 damage vs Cold based creatures and
Undead).

In total this makes the glaive D+10 damage & +10% Strike Chance.

## Wormskin Armour

This armour cam from the skin of a lesser worm and is a dark grey in colour.

-----------     ----------
Protection      9
Weight factor   4
Agility modifer 2
Base value      20,000 sp
-----------     ----------

It was improved by the dwarves of the Superstition Mountains to Rank
10, with the following stats.

-----------     ----------
Protection      10
Weight factor   4
Agility modifer 1
Base value      22,500 sp
-----------     ----------

The armour has worm's teath edged gauntlets, which can be used as
cestii.

## Prowess

Prowess is a special Adventuring Skill that may only be advanced once
per adventure or season, whichever is least. It increases the Strike
Chance of a Melee or Close Attack by 5 per Rank.

The Experience Multiple of this special Skill is 500.

## Claw of the Nephilim

This claw and forearm has been preserved so that it may be worked on
by a Weaponsmith who knows how to make hafted and experimental
weapons.

## Shield of Chaos

This octagonal shield weighs 5 lbs and is made of some iridescent,
shell like material. It penalises MD by 2 but provides 5 Defence (+5
per Rank).

If it can be presented against an attack (i.e. a visible attack that
approaches through the bearer's front hexes), then a D20 is rolled. If
the result is a prime, then this amount is deducted from the damage.
Note: 1 is not a prime.


## Winged Helm 

This helmet has wide, wing-like flanges on either side, and the face
is open. It weighs 2 lbs, and allows the wearer to roll 2 × MD
percentile chance to avoid a specific grievous injury to the skull
(but not the eyes).

The "wings" can store 3 points of the wearer's TMR to be used at a
later time. Increasing the TMR reservoir costs 1,000 Experience each
and takes the morning half of a week of Skill Training Time.
 
The reservoir may be replenished one at a time by reducing the
wearer's TMR by one for ten minutes, once per day.  The TMR stored can
be transferred directly to the wearer,. For so long as TMR remains in
the reservoir, the wearer can increase their own by one or more, once
per Pulse.

The helmet must be worn under the open sky for at least eight
consecutive days to attune it.

## Spell of Name Change

Range
: Self

Duration
: Conc. Max 30 minutes + 30 minutes per Rank

Experience Multiple
: 275

Base Chance
: 1%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Potion

Target
: Sentient Entity

Effects
: The Adept assumes the form or seeming of something whose Name they have Ranked.

If they wish to assume a physical form, then they must have at least
Rank 10 in its GTN.  When they transform they acquire the lowest value
of the creature's physical stats: PS, MD, AG, PB and EN.  They retain
their own MA, WP, FT and PC. For every 2 Ranks in the GTN in excess of
10 they may add 1 to the form's physical stats.  The Adept may not
transform into a fantastical or sentient creature, nor one that weighs
less than a few ounces (about the size of a mouse) nor more than
1000lbs (up to a large bull, but not a fully grown ox).

The cost to transform themselves is 12 FT - 1 per 2 Ranks in the spell.

They may assume the seeming of anything whose GTN they know.  This
will engage all of the usual senses.  The size of the seeming can be
no more than 1 hex per 3 or fraction Ranks in the Name.  It is much
harder to make a seeming that is smaller, however.  If the Adept has
Rank 10 in a Name, they can take the seeming of something half their
size, one quarter their size at Rank 20.  The limits on a seeming are
much less constrained than for a transformation.  However, the
appearance of a particular entity can be assumed only if their
Individual True Name is known.  In addition, the spell can only be
sustained for either 30 minutes + 30 minutes per Rank of the spell or
10 minutes + 10 minutes per Rank of the ITN, whichever is lowest.

Each time an observer has reason to question the seeming, then they
are allowed a Magic Resistance versus Namer Special Knowlege magic.
The roll is penalised by the Rank of the Name used, but the observers
gain a bonus to MR of their PC. If they fail this roll, but
subsequently have reason to doubt the seeming again, they may make
another roll.  If they resist, they are undeceived.  Seemings never
inflict any damage.  Indeed, physical contact sharp enough to require a
Strike Check will cause the seeming to dissipate.

The cost to change their appearance is 6 FT - 1 per 4 Ranks in the
spell.

This spell is not teachable to others.


# Ishamael

## Ambran Sash

Description
: Thin silk sash, about 4 feet long, about 6 inches wide.  It is a
  pale grey colour (but see below).

Powers
: The ash gives its possessor +9 ranks in Ambran (but not literacy).
  I.e. someone who does not speak Ambran will have Rank 8.  This does
  not stack with any other language magic.  The possessor cannot teach
  the language.
: The Sash protects its possessor against magic that detects Aura or
  Aspect or like (e.g. Detect Aura).  The possessor is always actively
  resisting such magic (which will increase backfire chance where
  application).  If the possessor spends an action to actively resist
  the magic, they gain no extra bonus.  Any spells or items or other
  things that gives bonuses to MR will stack with this.  The sash only
  makes the wearer actively resist all such magic automatically.
: The sash colour coordinates itself.  It has a continual colour
  cantrip which can be changed and turned on or off at a mental
  command from the wearer.  This does not affect, and will will stack
  with, any illusion magic on the wearer.

Value
: 1,200 sp

Aura
: Magic, nature of magic communication and obscuring; plane of orgin Ambra.

Notes
: The sash is as fragile as a normal silk item (i.e. pretty tough).
  The strong weave means it will hold up to 50lbs weight.  Water has
  no effect on it.  It can be folded very small.  It will not rip
  under normal use, but can be cut.  If the sash is damaged, all
  enchantment is lost.
: The Dragon Court of Ambra is a very cosmopolitan place.  It is very
  likely that an entity who commonly travels planes has been there.
: The mage who created the item, Viersaunt, can see through the aura
  and aspect protection of the sash (i.e. he can DA through the sash).
  The same goes for dragons.
: Wearing two sashes does not double the powers - they don't stack
  with each other.

GM
: Graig Beere

## Wiccan Amulet of aquilegius

Powers
: Wearer subtracts 10% from any roll on the Fright Table.

Value
: 2,880 sp

Description
: A roughtly-crafted ceramic amulet with a cler crystal in the centre,
  strung on a horse-leather thong.

Aura
: Magical, nature of magic is protection, college is Wicca, plane of
  origin is Alusia.

Notes
: The is was made by Landbrother, a Wicca of The Children of the
  Traveller, a Sea of Grass noman tribe.

GM
: Craig Beere

## Blade of Darkness

Plane of Origin
: Alusia

Nature of Magic
: Celestial

Physical Appearance
: This object is a finely crafted black tulwar, the hilt composed
  primarily of obsidian, rendered strong as steel, the blade of bound
  darkness.  The blade does not radiate darkness, but it is highly
  visible under light conditions.

Weight
: 2lbs

Effects
: The Blade of Darkness is amagic sword which was weaponsmithed prior
  to enchantment.  The total bonus is +10% to base chance and +2 to
  damage.  The primary magic in the blade is darkness.  On a
  successful strike, casuing effective damage, an opponent who fails
  to resist may be struck blind for D10 pulses if the wielder of the
  sword subtrcts a point of fatigue (or of endurance if they have no
  remainging fatigue).  This fatigue loss counts as spell fatigue.
  Even those entities who do not use eyes to see with can be "blinded"
  by this effect, with the result that they must subtract 40% from
  melee strike chances.

## Crystal of Vision

This is a standard Rank 6 Crystal of Vision.

## Leather Armour

Wgt
: 18 lbs

Prot
: 5

AG Mod
: 0

Stealth Mod
: 0

Value
: 2200 sp

This suite of finely crafted hard leather armour has been
armour-smithed to provide no Agility Modifier and an etra point of
Protection.  It is sized to fix a 5'10" to 6'2" human male.  It would
take a Rank 10 armour-smith 4 hours (and cost 55sp) to adjust the fit.

## Main Gauche

This Rank 4 Weaponsmith Main Gauche has +1 damage.

## Mana Potion [Used]

This potion, when imbibed, allows general knowledge spells to be cast
with less strain on the adept.  When ever a general knowledge spell is
cast, there is a chance the fatigue cost will be reduced by one.

Chance = 90 - (Adepts total ranks in Special knowledge spells)%

The duration of this effect is twenty four hours.

## Mana Tear

This looks and feels like a teardrop of obsidian about one and a half
inches long and one inch in diameter at the largest point.  The
material is less brittle than obsidian, but quite as resilient as
iron.  When DA'ed, the Tear is "formerly living", Generitc True Name:
three-quarter devil, and from the 8th Plane of Hell.  The tear is able
to store one spell of up to Rank 10 for up to 1 week.  To store a
spell, an Adept must successfully cast a spell at the tear.  If the
cast roll is "00" then the tear is destroyed.  The the cast is a
double or triple effect then only a normal effect is stored.  The tear
is "triggered" to release the spell effect, with a trigger Base Chance
of 75%.  If the triggering roll fails and is not a "00" then the spell
effect is still stored, and the trigger may be reattempted.  If the
roll is "00" then spell spell effect stored is lost.

## Obsidian Amulet

This amulet of extremely hard, black stone, on a silver chain, seems
to absorb all light coming into contact with it.  It is a piece of
darkness elemental, and must be worn against the skin to have any
effect.  While worn by a Celestial Dark Mage they will gain a minimum
Lightting Dondition Modifier of +5, and will always be in the presence
of elemental darkness.  Conversely, if worn by a Celestial Solar Mage
they will gain a maximum Lighting Condition Modifier of -5.

The amulet will absorb 1/2 (round down) of all damage the wearer
receives from Walls of Starlight, Light Swords, Bolts of Starfire,
Webs of Light, and Solar Flames.  But should the amulet absorb 10 or
more points in one pulse it will explode, and in so doing inflect D10
damage directly to the wearer's Endurance.

This amulet may be banished as per Namer Banishing in conjunction with a
Celestail Special Counterspell.

Aura
: Magical

Name Of Magic
: Summoning

GTN
: Dark Elemental

College
: Celestial Dark

Magic T/W/C
: No

Plane of Origin
: Elemental Dark

## Favour from Randolf William Perrindale [Used]

Description
: Ranfold Wiliam Perrindale the 3rd, a rich, trtired adventurer, owes
  Ishmael a favour.  This favour cannot be transferred.

Powers
: Randolf is a rich dilettante who lives in an exclusive area of
  Seagate.  He has contacts with traders and black marketeers, and has
  access to a small but wide-ranging library.  He is also a do-gooder,
  and involved with many charities and the like in Carzala.

Value:
N/A

GM
: Craig Beere

## Tulwar of Striking

This tulwar is magic in nature.  When triggered the blade will take
upon a noticeably silver glean.  This will last for the duration of a
few minutes or until a successful strike is made.

When a successful strike is made, the damage dice is automatically a
10.

Its activation is a free action, and will infliect a point of
endurance damage to the wielder.

Changes:
1

## Waterskin of Purity

This simple water skin, made from the bladders of a goat, has absorbed
magic from Oasis of Tranquillity.  It will slowly tranform and cleanse
any water it holds.  Over the space of a few hours its contents will
become clean, pure, refreshing water.

## Amulet of the Wolf Totem

Powers
: The wearer has a 20% reaction bonus from anyone friendly to the
  Children of the Traveller, if the item is visible.

: The wearer has increased taste and spell.  All perception rolls
  involving taste or smell are one step easier (e.g. a 3xPC check is
  modified to a 4xPC check).

: The increased sense of smell and taste grants greater tracking
  ability.  The wearer tracks as if their rank in the Ranger skill is
  one greater.  If they are unranked then they can track as a Rank 0
  Ranger.  If they are Rank 10 then they can track as a Rank 11
  Ranger.

: The wearer has a bonus of 6% to their Stealth skill.

: Note: the glove does not have to be worn on a hand to be effective.
  The wearer only has to ahve the glove somewhere on their person (but
  not in any container bigger than a small pouch).
  
Value
: 8,000 sp

Description
: The item is a glove made from finely worked grey wolf hide, sewn
  with black silk thread.  It is limber enough to be worn under
  armour.  It will reconfigure itself for right or left hand use.

: Around the wrist edge is stamped and dyed red "the wolf hunt
  siliently, little escapes her notice" in Common in the Western
  script.

Aura
: Magic, nature of magic is animal, college is N/A, plane of origin
  Alusia.

Notes
: This item was given to Ishamael by the Children of the Traveller.
  If it is sold or given away please contact the item's creator.

: Unless otherwise stated above, this item will not stack with any
  other effects unless those other effects state they will stack.

GM
: Craig Beere

## Pearl of Waterbreathing

This object looks like an ordinary pearl, but instead is a receptable
for a Water Breathing spell.  The pearl has to be placed near the
wearer's skin in order to function.  Currently the pearl is empty.
When a Water Mage holds the pearl and casts a WaterBreathing, the
spell is immediately absorbed by the pearl and split into a number of
charges equal to the number of hours that the spell would normally
run.  Each charge lasts for an hour and has a base chance of 45% +
3/rank of spell initially installed.  The pearl can only be recharged
when it is empty.  If a backfire occurs when charging there is a 5% *
spellrank chance that the pearl will crack and be rendered useless.
As a safety feature, if the current charge runs out while the user is
still underwater the next charge, if present, automatically activates.
The user will be aware that this occurs.

Currently [Spring 821WK] it has 13 charges with 90% BC.

Value = 4000sp 19/6/98 JP Smith 2765069

## Pact to the Outer Power Hades

### Hades

Hades is a deity of lawful neutral alignment whose sphere is Death. He
rules over an underworld plane named Hades which includes realms such
as Tartarus and the Elysium Fields. He is fair and just, but stern and
capable of very harsh decisions. His symbol is is the ram's head. His
avatar normally appears as a large, dark-skinned man with a black
beard and fiery eyes.

### Divine Intervention

Hades can be called upon through prayer. A reaction roll should be
made to determine the deity's response, which may be modified by the
character's recent actions.

### Benefits

1.  A character pacted to Hades becomes Death aspected if the
character is not already Death aspected.

2.  A character pacted to Hades receives a rankable talent in all
respects similar to the Speak with Dead talent of the College of
Necromantic magics.

3.  A character pacted to Hades receives a special ability called the
Kiss of Death through which the character may bring instant death to
an entity on negative endurance through an appropriate touch. Using
this ability requires two full actions, one to make contact and the
second to sever the target's life.

### Costs

1.  Should a character pacted to Hades die resurrectably there is a
-20% to the chance of successful resurrection in addition to the
normal penalty for death aspect.

2.  Should a character pacted to Hades die resurrectably the character
will have to argue eloquently with Hades for their soul to be
permitted to be returned to the mortal plane. If the GM wishes, this
may be played out with the GM acting as Hades.

3.  A character pacted to Hades is expected to serve Death in all its
aspects. That character cannot ever learn to resurrect the dead or
learn necromancy. The character is expected to bring merciful death to
his or enemies quickly and expeditiously. The state of undeath is
anathema to Hades and the undead are to be brought to their true Death
summarily, even at the risk of the character's own life.

Ishmael willingly entered into this pact in the City of Kersoon on
Thunor on 15 Fruit 798.

## Reputation - Bakarat The Toad

Marco and Ishmael are known to Bakarat, a powerful crime lord of
Sanctuary.  Their activities have pleased him and they are in his good
graces, he grant them a favour once (GM)

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820


## #1 Hobbit Detective Agency 

In recognition of their valuable field work, the #1 Hobbit Detective
Agency has assigned Marco and Ishmael the rank of Special Junior
Detective. While they hold this rank they receive;
- Free training for all normal skills, up to rank 4.
- Access to R7 weaponsmiths, armouers and mechinicians 
- General assistance (GM discretion) from the Agencies and detectives when in Brastor
- 5,000sp of guild services, per session, for the next two year.
- Free lodging in a detective agency in Brastor 

If the Agency hears of them acting against honest hobbits, they will
lose their rank in the agency and this benefit.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Armour potion x1 [Used]

When green vial contains a sticky brown liquid. When drunk a D is
rolled, for the next 12 pulses they will receive that as a reduction
against all damage.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Social potion x3

This delicate pot contains a sweet blue liquid. When drunk it will
grant a bonus of +20% to all social rolls for the duration of an hour.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Potions
- 5 × R9 Creating Restorative (S-9) potions
- 5 × R12 Waters of Healing (S-11)

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Wind walk (×5)

This is a rank 1 Wind Walking (S-17) with a BC of 65%.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Boom stick (×3)

This 1 inch rod has a button flush to the top, when the button is
pressed it triggers a R1 lightning bolt in the direction it is
pointed.  A dial on the base of the rod may be tuned to delay the
triggering of the spell, from 0 – 7 pulses.  Manufactured by a rank
R10 Mechanician.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Invisibility Scroll (×3)

This is a scroll of Invisibility (G-8) with a BC of 80%.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Blade Venom – Antimagic (×2) [1 used]

This robust phial weighs 3 oz. It contains an orange viscus substance
that may be applied to a weapon. For a minute the weapon will ignore
magical defence when used.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Blade Venom – Silence (×7) [3 used]

This robust phial weighs 2 oz. It contains a green viscus substance
that may be applied to a weapon. Effective damage must be done to take
effect, where the target struct may not speak for D pulses.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Obsidian Snake Charm

This obsidian charm of a snake may be used by the wearer to avoid
damage from a single attack. It will absorb 41 points before
shattering. All the attack must be absorbed, it cannot be divided. If
this would exceed the charms damage capacity, it is destroyed. If it
is not destroyed, the charms capacity is reduced, and this may be used
to absorb the damage from subsequent attacks [37 points used].

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Pot of healing Flesh (×2)

This pot contains a pinkish, oozing mass and weighs 4 oz. When it's
contents are applied to a wounded entity, a Specific Grievous Injuries
will be cured at the end of the next Pulse In addition, D+5 EN damage
is cured.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Pot of beauty Flesh (×2)

This pot contains a pinkish, oozing mass and weighs 6 oz. When it's
contents are applied it will increase the PB of the target by 8 (may
not exceed racial max) for a week.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Dagger of Deception

This black dagger is inlaid with silver runes. On the night of a full
moon it may be used to stab the palms of the wielder which will result
in D5 EN damage – which may not be healed until the ability is
used. The target can reroll a thief or spy roll at any time in the in
the next month, at which point the damage can be healed. If the
ability is in effect, and the target rolls greater than 90+ rank on a
thief or spy check (00 always fails) the dagger will disintegrate.

The dagger may only be used once a quarter and must be carried to be
effective.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Merchants brooch

This brooch of a large, vibrant emerald set in patinaed gold. To be
effective it must be covered the dust of a gem worth at least 1,000sp
once a season.

The amulet will add a rank to all merchant calculations. While in
effect if the merchant roll exceeds 90 + Rank the amulet will
disintegrate.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Potion of speed [used]

This small yellow potion will add 10 to the drinker’s initiative rolls
for the next week.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Teak Wand

This wand contains R14 firebolt BC 105%

Charges 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 [5 used]

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Funeral Mask

This finely painted paper mask may be placed on a corpse, it will add
20% to any resurrection attempt on the body.

Charges 2 1

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Enhance Characteristic Potion [used]

This is a rank 10 Enhance Characteristic herbalist potion will add 8
to any one characteristic for 8 hours.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Green Emerald of Perception [used]

This green emerald must be ground in dust and drunk with milk to take
effect. For the next quarter, the drinker will add 2 to PC.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Amulet of Message

This small gold amulet is the shape of a small bird.  When triggered
it sends a message to an entity using the winds. The user must know
the name of the entity and be able to pick them out from a crowd.  The
maximum length of the message is 15 words. The messages will be in the
voice of the Adept at the same volume as when spoken and can only be
heard by the target. There is a noticeable but minor effect of
swirling air when the message is sent and received. The time taken for
the message to reach the entity is 1 min per 10 mile.

Charges 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 [3 used]

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Silver Nail (×4)

When this silver nail is hammered into the footprint that is less than
a day old it may then be used in conjunction with a scrying any time
in the next 7 days.

When scrying (Crystal of vision, Waters of Vision etc) the nail may be
used (and consumed) to target the scrying on whoever left the
footprints (limited by the range etc of the scrying).

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Twin Human Amulet of Luck

+2 MR +3 DEF, stacks with amulet of luck (12,000 sp)

## Tarsik Bone Rapier

Rank 10 (D+6) with Rank 20 Spectral Weapon (7,000 sp)

## Tarsik Bone Main Gauche

Rank 10 (D+4) with Rank 20 Spectral Weapon (4,000 sp)

## Mass Fear Invented

3 × 1 Mass Fear Invested Rk 8 BC 85                      8,000

## Damnum Minatum Dust

3 Damnum Minatum Dust - Deafness, Cowardness (-3 WP & +5 Fright/Awe
rolls) and Wasting Disease (Wasting disease causes -1 Strength and -1
Endurance per day until stopped by Cure Disease.  The Strength and
Endurance lost will be recovered at 1 point per day, or treated by
Repair Muscles.  5,000

## Hemlock Potion

3 Hemlock Potion - Subtract 6 EN per hour for 48 Hours              9,000

## Walk Unseen

4 Walk Unseen Potion Rank 10                          4,000

## Restorative

10 Gut Busters Rank 10 (-12EN and 24FT)                    10,000

## Sleep Dust

1 Sleep Dust Rank 10 Can't be woken                      5,000

## Oil of Enchant Weapon

7 Oil of Enchant Weapon Rk 10 (+11% +4 Dm)                  7,000

## Oil of Enchant Armour

1 Oil of Enchant Armour Rk 10 (+22 DEF)                      1,000

## Mass Fear Trap

1 Rank 1 Mass Fear Trap Rg 25                          1,000

## Waters of Healing

4 Waters of Healing  15 Points                          4,000

## Healing Potion

6 Healing 10 Point                                  5,500

## Healing Potion

3 Healing 20 Point                                  6,000

## Healing Potion

1 Healing 40 Point                                  4,000

## Poison

5 Poison Rk 10 Slow (Save vs EN for no effect) for 3 minutes        10,000

## Poison [2 used]

10 Necrotic Poison D10 / pulse (Save vs EN for half effect) for 1 minute    10,000

## Venom

3 No Healing Venom (Save vs EN for no effect) Duration D+2 minutes    12,000

## Venom [2 used]

6 Refined Basilisk Venom D + 10 Damage                      3,000
(No Save, reduced by Amulets etc.) One off effect.

## Extract of Halfling (10,000sp)

Extract of Halfling +3 MD, +1 AG, +1 WP (Not above Racial
maximum). Infravision, see faint red shapes where living beings are
located in the dark.  Range 100 feet

## Darkness Points

3 Darkness Points                                30,000

## Raw Mana Points [used]

2 Raw Mana Points                                20,000

