---
title: Items for DQ Characters
date: March 21, 2024
table-of-contents: true
numbersections: true
---

# Weapons

## Spectal Weapons

Jedburgh has a hand & a half, glaive, short sword and two dagger with
Rank 19 Spectral Weapon permanently on them.

## Glaive of Flame

This glaive is a magic weapon based upon a Rank 4 weaponsmithed (+1
damage) silvered blade.  It has obviously been rehafted several times
(it may not be rehfted as any other type of weaopon and have the
magical effects).  In addition it is imbused with a very old Weapon of
Flames style of magic.  The original intention is to be flaming all
the time but over the last 3,000 years the magic has waned somewhat
until now the magic nees some assistance to get going.  The blade must
be lit by some means before the magic will take affect.  Any magical
flame or ignition talent will automatically start the magic in one
pulse as will a small campefire sized flame.  Sparks, such as from a
tinderbox, have a 33% change of igniting the weapon per pulse and a
candle will have a 50% chance of igniting the glaive per pulse.

One lit the glaive will burn for 5 minutes and cannot be used again
for 3 hours.  Whilst burning the glaive is under the effect of a Rank
10 Weapon of Flames spell with all the normal benefits, i.e. +4
magical damage and +10% to Hit (+10 damage vs Cold based creatures and
Undead).

In total this makes the glaive D+10 damage & +10% Strike Chance.

## Claw of the Nephilim

This claw and forearm has been preserved so that it may be worked on
by a Weaponsmith who knows how to make hafted and experimental
weapons.

## Shield of Chaos

This octagonal shield weighs 5 lbs and is made of some iridescent,
shell like material. It penalises MD by 2 but provides 5 Defence (+5 /
Rank).

If it can be presented against an attack (i.e. a visible attack that
approaches through the bearer's front hexes), then a D20 is rolled. If
the result is a prime, then this amount is deducted from the damage.
Note: 1 is not a prime.

# Armour

## Wormskin Armour

This armour cam from the skin of a lesser worm and is a dark grey in colour.

-----------     ----------
Protection      9
Weight factor   4
Agility modifer 2
Base value      20,000 sp
-----------     ----------

It was improved by the dwarves of the Superstition Mountains to Rank
10, with the following stats.

-----------     ----------
Protection      10
Weight factor   4
Agility modifer 1
Base value      22,500 sp
-----------     ----------

The armour has worm's teath edged gauntlets, which can be used as
cestii.

## Winged Helm 

This helmet has wide, wing-like flanges on either side, and the face
is open. It weighs 2 lbs, and allows the wearer to roll 2 × MD
percentile chance to avoid a specific grievous injury to the skull
(but not the eyes).

The "wings" can store 3 points of the wearer's TMR to be used at a
later time. Increasing the TMR reservoir costs 1,000 Experience each
and takes the morning half of a week of Skill Training Time.
 
The reservoir may be replenished one at a time by reducing the
wearer's TMR by one for ten minutes, once per day.  The TMR stored can
be transferred directly to the wearer,. For so long as TMR remains in
the reservoir, the wearer can increase their own by one or more, once
per Pulse.

The helmet must be worn under the open sky for at least eight
consecutive days to attune it.


# Items

## Box of Enhancement

This small wooden box is 1ft in each dimension. An item put in the box
for a full 24 hours will be enhanced, any of the items random effect
will be maximised (i.e. any D roll will be a 10).  Only one item may
be enhanced at any one time and must be used before the box can be to
use used again.

(GMs discretion on use)

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Ultimate Outdoors Manual

This read must study this book for a week and then will permanently
gain +5% to all ranger base chances.  After it is read the book will
disappear [Used].

## Ribbon of Clarity

This is a brightly striped rank 8 silk ribbon made by Athena's lesser
handmidens.

It will add 12% to the wearer's magic resistance vs general knowledge
spells of the College of Sorceries of the Mind.

The ribbon must be tied into the wearer's head hair, and takes one day
(24 hours) to adjust to the wearer before the bonus will apply.

## Brided Lanyard

This is a rank 8 metallic black braid formed from a repetitive series
of complex knots made by Athena's lesser handmaidens.

The wielder will never involuntarily drop the weapon to which the
braid is attached, and can choose to ignore disarm attempts for this
weapon.

The ribbon must be tied onto a specific weapon (it will not impede
use) and takes one day (24 hours) to adjust to the wapon before
bonuses will apply.

# Abilities

## Strength of Stone – target modification 

When Strength of Stone is cast upon Marco and Jedburgh, they may
choose to split the ranks across EN and STR. i.e. a R10 spell may give
them +8EN and +2STR.

Terry Spencer - No 1 Detective Hobbit Agency - The Creampuff
Catnappering Caper – Summer 820

## Prowess

Prowess is a special Adventuring Skill that may only be advanced once
per adventure or season, whichever is least. It increases the Strike
Chance of a Melee or Close Attack by 5 per Rank.

The Experience Multiple of this special Skill is 500.

# Talents & Spells

## Dark Vison

Jedburgh has gained the talents of Dark Vision (as per Celestial
College spell) and Spirit Vision (can see disembodied spirits).


## Spell of Name Change

Range
: Self

Duration
: Conc. Max 30 minutes + 30 minutes per Rank

Experience Multiple
: 275

Base Chance
: 1%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Potion

Target
: Sentient Entity

Effects
: The Adept assumes the form or seeming of something whose Name they
  have Ranked.

If they wish to assume a physical form, then they must have at least
Rank 10 in its GTN.  When they transform they acquire the lowest value
of the creature's physical stats: PS, MD, AG, PB and EN.  They retain
their own MA, WP, FT and PC. For every 2 Ranks in the GTN in excess of
10 they may add 1 to the form's physical stats.  The Adept may not
transform into a fantastical or sentient creature, nor one that weighs
less than a few ounces (about the size of a mouse) nor more than
1000lbs (up to a large bull, but not a fully grown ox).

The cost to transform themselves is 12 FT - 1 per 2 Ranks in the spell.

They may assume the seeming of anything whose GTN they know.  This
will engage all of the usual senses.  The size of the seeming can be
no more than 1 hex per 3 or fraction Ranks in the Name.  It is much
harder to make a seeming that is smaller, however.  If the Adept has
Rank 10 in a Name, they can take the seeming of something half their
size, one quarter their size at Rank 20.  The limits on a seeming are
much less constrained than for a transformation.  However, the
appearance of a particular entity can be assumed only if their
Individual True Name is known.  In addition, the spell can only be
sustained for either 30 minutes + 30 minutes per Rank of the spell or
10 minutes + 10 minutes per Rank of the ITN, whichever is lowest.

Each time an observer has reason to question the seeming, then they
are allowed a Magic Resistance versus Namer Special Knowlege magic.
The roll is penalised by the Rank of the Name used, but the observers
gain a bonus to MR of their PC. If they fail this roll, but
subsequently have reason to doubt the seeming again, they may make
another roll.  If they resist, they are undeceived.  Seemings never
inflict any damage.  Indeed, physical contact sharp enough to require a
Strike Check will cause the seeming to dissipate.

The cost to change their appearance is 6 FT - 1 per 4 Ranks in the
spell.

This spell is not teachable to others.

# Used

## Liquid Moonlight

This small vial of liquid contains a distillation that confers extra
potency to blades when upon them.  It must be applied to a blade under
the full moon and retains its properties till the next full moon.
During this time the blade will glisten like moonlight upon water, and
will do double damage to shapeshifters of any type and in any form,
including lycanthropes, etc (doppelgangers included).  This may be
placed on magical weapons (within reason) [Used].
