---
title: Callas items
date: June 23, 2025
table-of-contents: true
numbersections: true
---
# Weapons & Shields

## Sabre of the Silent Depths

This sabre has a pitch-black blade that seems to absorb light.  It is
a reforge of several magical swords into one, created by the Granite
Peak dwarf hold weaponsmiths.  It has also been infused with black
mushroom essence, further enhancing the anti-magic properties of the
original weapons.

The weapon was broken and repaired and is now brittle.  It it is
broken again the weapon will be damaged beyond repair.

BC: 70% DM: +5 Class: B IV: +10

It has the following abilities.

1. The chance of scoring an Endurance blow while wielding this sword is 20%.
2. Against creatures of the deep earth (excluding dwarves) it does an
   additional +5 damage that ignores armour.
3. Any entity struck by the weapon will have a random beneficial spell
   in effect on them dissipated unless they resist vs Namer college.
4. Weapon spells may be cast on it and they may be stored for up to a
   day until activated with a trigger action.  Weapon of Diamond may
   be stored indefinitely.


## Snake Dagger

This dagger has a snak twisted around the blade and enchanted to be
deadly in combat.  For every point the weilder reduce damage on the
next blow their dice roll is reduced by 1 (up to five points).  BC:
50% DM +4


## Master-crafted Sabre

This trusilver Sabre has been superbly crafted by a Rank 15
Weaponsmiwth from Granite Peak dwarven hold to provide +14% SC.  It
has been customized for Callas and in anyone else's hands it will only
count as Rank 10 (+10% SC).  It is simply adorned with "Granite Peak
Hold" inlaid in mithril runes on the blade.

## Short Sword

Rank 10 Weaponsmithed, +5% +1Dm, Silvered.

## Master-crafted Shield

This Large Round Shield has been superbly crafted by a Rank 14
Weaponsmith from Granite Peak dwarven hold so that it has no negative
modifier to MD when prepared.  It has been customized for Callas and
in anyone else's hands it will incur a penalty of -2 MD.  The shield
boss has been fashioned in the likeness of a stylised Dwarven face.

## Shield of Disruption

This magical Small round Shield is of Dwarvern origin and bears a Rune
of Disruption.  Furthermore it is crafted by a Rank 10 Armourer and
its exuisite balance provides the wielder with 5% per Rank of Shield
to their Defence (ie 5--25%).

Every pulse the wielder is engaged in Melee Combat, any weapon spells
of the opponent's within the wilder's front 3 hexes have a chance of
being Disrupted and removed.  Furthermore any _Magical_ bonus to Base
Chance and Damage of a Shaped Magic has a chance of being Disrupted
and will be nullified for as long as the opponent remains in the
wielder's font 3 hexes.  The chance of this Disruption occurring is
10% (+5% per Rank in Shield).

Weapon spells include Enchanting Weapon, Phantasm, Weapon of Cold,
Weapon of Flames, Self-immolation, Diamond Weapon, Light Sword, Shadow
Sword, Dark Sword, Spectral Weapon, Minor Creation, Mending, Spectral
Warrior, Runeweapon, Unbreakability and other spells the GM sees fit.

A Giant would treat it as a Buckler and would receive 4% per Rank of
Shield to their Defence (ie 4--20%).


# Armour

## Quilted Armour

Size 7 armour (cloth, quilted canvas) [5 points / 15 lbs if sized for
human], 0 AG, +5 Stealth.


## Snake Armour

An image of a single red serpent is wrapped around the breatplate of
this learth armour.  Weight: 3, Protect 7, AG, -1.

The wearer receives a bonus of +20% to resist any control/charm (or
similar) spells.  In additon their PB is boosted by 4 (not above
racial maximum).


## Voidsilk Robe

This robe is made from voidsilk, and is the colour of migraines. It
will conform in fit to anyone of size 6 or less.  The wearer must
sacrifice a point of EN to bind the robes to them.  Once bound, it has
the following properties:

- +1 WP
- 6 points of Protection and 8 points of Spell Armour which will stack
  with Natural Armour or that made from plant or animal fibres but not
  leather, wooden, ceramic or metal armour.
- Reduces damage by 1 point except versus Disruption, Putrid Wound,
  Necrosis, Torment, venom or similar.
- If the wearer is the target of a Defence spell, it increases that
  Defence by another 7
- The calculation for bonus to Magical Aptitude from Purification
  becomes 1 per four Ranks not 1 per five and 1 extra Magic Resistance
  for every four Ranks.
- The wearer may buy a point of spell casting FT for the robe at a
  cost of 1,999 Experience, which may be used (only) for the casting
  of spells or rituals. The maximum FT that can be stored is 10, and
  only one such point may be bought per season or adventure, whichever
  is least.
- If the robes are damaged, 1 point of Protection is restored at a
  cost of 3 EN which can only be recovered by Natural Healing.


## Giant Spider Carapace

This is the black, chitin exoskeleton of a giant trapdoor spider.  An
armourer may use this to craft one suite of non-metallic, magical
plate armour at the cost of 5000sp, which will provide one less
protection than its metal equivalent but be half the weight.  In
addition the wearer will be unable to be ensnared in any web.  The
armour will be shiny black and will have a somewhat arachnid
appearance. [Heavy Plate, 8pt armour, 24 lbs].


## Dominican Chainmail

This mail shirt covers a humanoid of size 6 from the shoulders to the
knees, and must be belted.  It weighs 42 lbs, reduces AG by 2, Stealth
by 15 and improves Magic Resistance by 15.  It provides Protection of
10, EN Armour of 1 and 3 points of Spell Armour.  However, the wearer
adds 15 to the result of any Cast Check, and any roll of "00" is
always a backfire, regardless of Cast Chance.

Once a day, and at a cost of 10 FT, the wearer may double their base
PS for three consecutive Pulses. Magical enhancements to PS stack but
are not doubled.


## Tabard of the Hounds of God

This white linen tabard has a black hound, rampant, breathing flames,
embroidered into it with thread spun from the sinews of a night gaunt.
It will fit any human, elf or orc, weighs four pounds and may be worn
over chain or plate armour.  Wearing this tabard penalises FT recovery
by one.  For example, if the wearer would normally recover three FT
from tea, then they recover two.  If the wearer avoids this cost on
three consecutive occasions, the embroidery rots and the magic is
lost.

The wearer takes one less damage from magic that drains life, and
their Defence is improved by seven.  In addition, they may increase
their half move TMR by one.  For example, if their TMR is five, then
their half move TMR would normally be three, but wearing the tabard
would make it four.

## Skin of the fallen Maia

This skin is somewhat shredded and weighs 11 oz, and if it has a
colour, then it would be a pale azure. It is all that remains of a
maia of hidden wisdom who fell in combat against Glaurung.

A Rank 4 Seamstress or Tailor will take three weeks to craft it into a
cloak, and they will charge 50 guineas for their work. It will not
abide the touch of metal, dragons or those who have drunk from one's
heartblood.

It is a focus for the Talent: Sense Danger. While it is worn on
adventure, the Talent may be advanced by the wearer as if they were an
Adept of the College of the Sorceries of the Mind.

If it is worn over leather armour or similar, it provides five points
of Protection, eight points of Spell Armour (which applies to the
breath weapons of dragons and dragonkin), one point of Damage
Reduction, which applies to everything except the special damage of
Specific Grievous injuries and poisons. The wearers Defence is
improved by one point of Defence for every three points of Agility.

Once a day, they may exchange their MA for a value of 37, which will
last for 12 Pulses. This ability resets when the wearer next Purifies
at midnight.  For the purposes of determining how long it will take to
repair, the shawl has ten EN which it recovers at a rate of one point
every three days.

## Shirt of Knitted Mithil Chain

This lightweight shirt is woven from threads of gleaming mithril,
weighing only 11 oz and sized for a humanoid of Size 6.

Protection
: +6 (to a maximum of 13)

Spell Armour
: +8

Weapon Resistance
: Reduces damage from Sword-category weapons by 3

Limitations
 ~ Offers no protection against damage that propagates over a volume or Gaze attacks.
 ~ Has no beneficial effect when worn beneath leather or metal armour.

Layering Rules
: The magic of the Shirt of Mithil Chain may stack with:

 - Either a cloak or coat (not both),
 - And a jacket.

In other words
: it may be worn with a jacket and either a cloak or a coat â€” but not
both a cloak and a coat.  Where effects do not stack, the greatest
single effect applies.

Agility Enhancement
: Wearing this shirt imposes no Agility penalty.

Additionally, if the wearer has not already reached or exceeded their
racial Agility maximum, they may increase their Agility by 1 point (a
total of 6 more than they started with) and no more than 1 greater
than their racial maximum. They must fulfill the following:

- Spend 10,000 Experience
- Wear the Shirt


# Standard Invested Items

## Ring of Invested Wind Walking

This is a small brass rings, inscribed with Ty Trident's mark, and
invested with the Air spell Wind Walking (S-17) at rank 6.

Plane of Origin
: Alusia

Weight
: 0.02lbs

BC
: 87%

Speed
: 80mph

Duration
: 210s

Range
: 70 feet

Aura
: Magics

Charges
:
4 3 2 1


## Ring of Invested Wind Walking

This is a small brass rings, inscribed with Ty Trident's mark, and
invested with the Air spell Wind Walking (S-17) at rank 6.

Plane of Origin
: Alusia

Weight
: 0.02lbs

BC
: 87%

Speed
: 80mph

Duration
: 210s

Range
: 70 feet

Aura
: Magics

Charges
:
4 3 2 1

## Ring of Invested Wind Walking

This is a small brass rings, inscribed with Ty Trident's mark, and
invested with the Air spell Wind Walking (S-17) at rank 1.

Plane of Origin
: Alusia

Weight
: 0.02lbs

BC
: 70%

Speed
: 55mph

Duration
: 60s

Range
: 20 feet

Aura
: Magic

Charges
:
2 1

## Extinguish Invested

Invested item with Rank 10 invested Extinguish Fire Spell.

BC
: 100%

Range
: 165 feet

Effect
: Extinguish all fies within 110 feet

Charges
: 1 2

Guild Valuation
: 250sp each

Game
: 5 Go Mad In Delphi

GM
: Michael Young

# Standard Items

## Ivory Wand

This wand will add 5% to the base chance of casting the Earth mage
spell of Detect Poison.

## Amulet of Luck

Made from tiger's or alligator's teeth.  It increases the wearer's
Magical Resistance by 3 and subtracts 2 from any Strike Check made
against the wearer. Cost: 2400 SP.

## Elder Flowers

Makes the wearer proof against the Evil Eye. Cost: 400 SP.

## Hypericum

Increases the wearer's Magical Resistance by 10 to any magical act
performed by a Demon or Daemonic being.  Cost: 800 SP.

# Bespoke Items

## Healing Potion

Restores 3D10! damage.

## Gem Shard - Sapphire


## Staff of the Woodland

This oaken quarterstaff weighs 3 lbs. It is shod with horn, and living
mistletoe winds around its shaft. It has a base Strike Chance of 67%,
and inflicts base damage of 1 rollup d10 + 5, dealing C-Class melee
damage.

- If the wielder has Rank 5 with this weapon, they may wield it
  one-handed.

- If the wielder attains Rank 10, the base damage increases to 2
  rollup d10 + 5.

- If the staff is wielded by a Druidic spellcaster, the Base Chance of
  all Spells and Rituals they know is increased by 10.

Once per day, the wielder may choose one of the following effects:

Woodland Concealment
: The wielder may use the surrounding woodland to Hide the Tracks of a
  number of entities equal to their Rank in Ranger. This costs 1 FT
  per concealed entity and lasts for a number of hours equal to their
  Rank in Ranger. This concealment requires but a Pass Action.

Tree Form
: The wielder may assume the form of a sheltering rowan tree, 30 feet
  tall with a 30-foot wide canopy. While in this form, they may
  attempt to conceal others beneath their leaves with a Stealth
  roll. Detect Aura will reveal that the wielder is not an actual
  tree.

Spell Surge
: The wielder may increase the Rank of a spell by two. This affects
  its Range, Base Chance, and Damage. This requires a Free Act.

### Investment Properties

The staff is a valid target for the Investment Ritual when storing the following spells:

- Converse with Animals
- Converse with Plants
- Armour of Earth
- Enchanting Plants
- Wall of Thorns

A total of up to twelve spells may be stored in the staff. They cost
the same as if invested in a scroll but are triggered as a Magical
Cast Action on their wielderâ€™s Unengaged Initiative.

Anyone who knows the Investment Ritual and any of the listed spells
may store them in the staff.

## Dragon's Teeth Ã— 33

Each of these teeth weigh an oz and there are 63 of them. They may be
sown on a battlefield, whereupon each will grow into a warrior with
the following stats:

+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| PS: 20   | MD: 18   | AG: 15   | MA: 10   | EN: 24   | FT: 23   |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+
| WP: 20   | PC: 18   | PB: 12   | TMR: 5   | NA: 5               |
+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+----------+

Attack       IV     SC     DM     Class     Use Rk
---------    ----   -----  ----  --------  ---- -----
Battleaxe    40     109%   +6     B class   8   7
Lg Rd Shld   37     68%    +2     C class   M   4

Their Defence is 35 and their Magic Resistance is 40%.

The warriors will fight loyally under the command of whoever sowed
them, always succeeding when forced to make a morale check but will
last no longer than a minute.

It takes a Pass action to sow the dragon's teeth, and as many as
(Military Scientist Rank - 2) may be sown on any given day. The teeth
may be sown in one action or one at a time.

## Balrog Eye

These transparent, watchful, oval crystals of red and black may be
enchanted with the Create Crystal of Vision Ritual. Once a day, it may
be used as a Crystal of Vision or as if a Ritual of Flame Sight had
been successfully performed, but not both.

Infravision and Pyrogenesis may be used through the crystal, range
counting from the point of view.

## Balrog Teeth Ã— 12

These teeth are very hard, and each one weighs half a pound.

They may be thrown to the ground and crushed under heel. This has a
chance of 83%, which may double, triple, or backfire. The following
Pulse, a Rank 20 Wall of Fire will spring up centred on the crushed
tooth, but having the proportions that the user wishes as outlined by
the spell (Section 21.6 S-13).

## Tinture of Sloe Plum

This dark brown bottle is as long as a blacksmith's hand and weighs 17
oz.

The contents lose their special character after the bottle has been
opened for an hour. Until then, the first three drops of the contents
have the special property of restoring someone whose EN is sub-zero
but not dead to 4 EN. More will not help, although many claim that it
has medicinal value against the shock of a near death experience. An
entity cannot benefit from the special property of Tincture of Sloe
Plum more than once a week.

## The Plaque of Midnight

The image of a slender, silver crescent on a black bacground is
painted on this slim plaque of dark red leather weighs 4 oz. It is a
Trump of the Deck of Rogues.

The card holder may play this Cartum Arcanum at a cost of 1 Midnight
to create a megahex-sized zone around them which will visit upon those
inside the effects of that Aspect, and which will last for twelve
Pulses.

They may play the Trump reversed on an area of a megahex that is up to
15 hexes distant at the same cost. Anyone who is performing an Action
or series of Actions from the Professions of Thief, Spy or Assassin
will be outlined in soft, silvery light amd be the cynosure of all
eyes. Stealth, Invisibility, Walking Unseen, Blending or Unremarkable
Appearance will be immediately ended and may not be begun for twelve
Pulses.

The card holder may gather 1 Midnight on the last night of the Dark of
the Moon, but it will only hold 1. If they sacrifice 2,500 Experience
to the cartum, they may increase it to 2, but this can only be done
once per season or adventure, whichever is the least, and the cost
doubles each time.  Incantations


## Storage Crystal

This crystal is transparent and a pale yellow in colour.  It is a
regular duodecimal solid that is 12 cms across and weighs 1 lb.  It
can be used to store power or spell casting FT at a rate of 1 point
per 10 minutes of focused concentration during which no other activity
can be undertaken.

The crystal, currently, has a value of 0, being empty. To increase its
storage capacity to 1, the user must spend as many days as the next
prime value and the same value in thousands of Experience.  Thus, the
user must spend two days two thousand Experience to raise it from 0
to 1.  To increase capacity from 1 to 2, they must spend (3-2=1) one
day and one thousand Experience.

The storage capacity of the crystal cannot be raised beyond 10, and
the user spends 2 of their FT to store 1 in the crystal, which takes 1
hour. These need not be consecutive.

These points can only be used for paying the FT cost of Spells or Rituals. 

## Crystal Wand of Linking Sense

This crystal wand is 31 cms long, tapering to a five faced point at
the tip, and weighs eleven ounces.  Charges: 1

The wielder adds their MA Bonus and Enchantment to the Cast Chance. If
their WP is greater than the target, they further increase the Cast
Chance by the difference. If it is lower, then the Cast Chance is
penalised by twice the difference.

Cast Chance
: 38%

Range
: 105 feet

Duration
: Conc. Max. 70 minutes

Resistance
: Active & Passive

Target
: Living entity

Effects
: The Adept may Trigger this effect by pointing the wand at a target
  within range that they can see and requires but a Fire Action. If
  the target fails to Resist, the Adept may see through the target's
  eyes until the spell ends.

While it is in effect, they may not apply their Agility to their
Defence, nor may they see through their own eyes.

## Crystal Wand of Mental Restoration

This crystal wand is 31 cms long, tapering to a three faced point at
the tip, and weighs eleven ounces.

Charges
: 8    7    6    5    4    3    2    1

The wielder adds their MA Bonus and Enchantment to the Cast Chance. If
their WP is greater than the target, they further increase the Cast
Chance by the difference. If it is lower, then the Cast Chance is
penalised by twice the difference.

Cast Chance
: 38%

Range
: Touch

Duration
: Immediate, during Pulse

Resistance
: None

Target
: Entity

Effects
: The Adept may Trigger this effect by touching their patient with the
  wand and requires but a Fire Action. The Adept may restore a mental
  stat (MA, WP, PC or FT) by one for every prime value of FT spent,
  thus:

FT spent    Amount restored
--------    ------------------------
    2                1
    3                2
    5                3
    7                4
   11                5
   13                6
   17                7 

and so on. 

## I See You

This small disc shaped crystal is 3cm diameter and 3mm thick. It has a
small hole through it near the edge, so can be worn on a necklace,
wristband, or such.

The crystal has been worked by the Wicked Witch of the West (WoW) on
Oz to show when the wearer is being magically scryed. The crystal is
normally a deep azure in colour. This colour will immediately change
to deep magenta when the wearer is scryed magically.

This includes, but is not limited to:

*	Telepathy or Empathy
*	Wizards Eye
*	Crystal of Vision
*	Waters of Vision
*	Detect Aura

The crystal will slowly fade back to its normal colour over a period
of 1 minute once the source of magical scrying has gone.

The crystal looks somewhat fragile, but is nigh on unbreakable by
normal means.


## A set of Meseemer's Plaques

These plaques (five in number) come in a carved ivory box.  The
plaques must be in the hand to have an effect.  The plaques are:

The Fool.  When presented at a critical moment the Fool steps out of
the card as if prepared to juggle.  The Fool then catches a magical or
missile attack directed at its owner and manifests this as catching a
juggling ball.  The attack may now be tossed back atthe ttacker
(grenado roll required) or the ball may be kept by the Fool.  The Fool
Plaque may be used up to four times and may store up to four balls.  A
fifth use ofthe Fool released all the remianing balls and the Fool
disappears in a flourish of entertaining waves and bows.

The Artist.  This plaue is blank but when drawn conjures a collection
of tiny paint pots, inks and pens.  The plaque then folds out as a
paint board with holders for the above.  The owner of  the plague may
then paint or draw into existane nay simple non livign non metal
object e.g. a door, window, stairwell, lap etc. no larger than 10 Ã— 10
Ã— 10 feet in size.  The plaque contains enough paints for a dozen
drawings [now 11].

Gorgeous Companion.  When drawn a companion of the appropriate sex and
race steps forth from the card, dressed for the correct social
occasion.  The Gorgeous Compansion is treated as a Rank 10 troubadour,
spy and courtesan/courtier and is an expert at lip reading, memroy
etc., reading all details expertly.  The gorgeous Companion has a PB
equal to that of the drawer +5 subject to racial maximums.  The
Companion is an expert at converstaion and after circulating for about
30 minutes will glean all there is to know from any particular social
event.  The companion then whispers the information in the owner's ear
while making other suitable social comments.  There is a 1/10 chance
per use the Companion goes their own way at any event and never
returns.  Someone else may then find the card and may queestion the
companion about their previous owner.  The plaque has no current
infomration on Lorefakir. [Gone].

Deferring Butler.  A Butler complete with tails steps forth and from
the card to intercept anyone approaching the plaque's owner.  The
Butler has an 10ft _Aura of Calm Disposition_, which calrms those
hostile to their master (save vs 2Ã— Willpower or become non-hostile).
The Deferring Butler may then produce an acceptable explanation to the
Carlmed character as to why their master cannot be disturbed at this
moment.  This deferral may last up to twenty minutes.  This effect is
broken when combat actually commences whereupon the Butler steps
behind his master and offers useful observation and encouragement eg
"Bravo Sir!" or "Oh, I say, Good Shot Sir!".  The Butler will also
hold the character's equipment, jacket, etc.  The Butler retains
employment with this master for as many encounters as twice the
character's combined ranks of Courtier and Social Status.  The Butler
then seeks employment elsewhere.  Encourgement by the Butler
temporarily increases Willpower by 3 for the duration of the
encounter.  [Used 3].

Monologue.  A character using this cad can stay action (including
combat) for as long as they can effectively speak (save vs 1 Ã—
Willpower).  Villains and enemies will listen as long as the player
can describe why they, the character, are important, why the enemy is
(or isn't) and why they are destined to win (or not) etc.  The
conversation must be relevant in some way to the enemy (GM's call).
Fighting beings again as soon as the Monologue ceases.  Players may
use this time to heal etc (so can the enemy) but cannot ttack or the
Monologue is broken.  This card is destroyed when the talker is caught
contradicton any part of their earlier monologue (unless they are
particularly verbally agile) unless the result is humourous (GM's
call).

## The Wild Hunt of the Moon

Then the characters return to Alusia they each find around their necks
a locket in the shape of a *Hunters Moon*.  Stored within this locket
is an aspect of the *Wild Hunt of the Moon*, a last gift from the
Lady.  This locket may only be used once per Chase of the Moon
(thirteen years) and may effect up to one person for each and every
Ranger, Warrior and Weapon Rank possessed by the locket's owner.

When grasped and invoked under a moonlit night sky, those affected
take on the aspect of the Wild Hunt of the Moon.  TMR becomes tripled
and tireless and is unaffect by terrain - over water, through trees,
over hills, cliffs and dales, its all the same to the Hunt.  Movement
rate becomaes based upon the hights TMR in the party and mounts may be
included if desired to enchance movement (but mounts must be fully
grown stags, horses, wolves or dogs - all are treated as maximum sized
medium war horses for the duration of the Hunt).  A single mount per
rider does not count against the total number of creatures that may be
included in the Hunt.  This TMR effect fails under flying magics.  As
stated, the Hunt is tireless and relentless, not requiring rest and
incurring no fatigue penalty until the next dawn breaks.

Other Effects.  All those effected by The Wild Hunt are enamoured of
the Moon and may band damage in to their moon shadows for as long as
the Hunt is in existance - roll d10 for damage that may be ignored
from any particular blow of source.  Once again this effect also
applies to the Hunter's mounts.

All edges, thrusting or missile weapons in the hands of those affected
by The Wild Hunt of the Moon are blessed as if by a Rank 20 Weapon of
Darkness for as long as the Hunt exists.  Unlike Weapon of Darkness
**all** creatures may be affected by the blessed weapons.  The
Blessing effect lasts as loog as the weapon is dropped, broken, fired
etc but any new weapon grasped by a Hunt member becomes similarly
blessed.  Blessed weapons appear spectral, thin and silvery to sight.

Characters caught up in the Wild Hunt of the Moon have their DB
[Defense Bonus] increased by 20 for the duration and roll 3d10, not
d10, for all initiative rolls.  Members of the Hunt radiate Fear but
only one check is required by those meetng the Hunt on any particular
night.  Death results from Fear do not apply.

The Wild Hunt of the Moon has one additional effect:  If the total
number of possible participants in the Hunt is not filled, those
meeting the Hunt may be compelled to join it (save at 2 Ã— Willpower)
or willingly join the Hunt.  Those who join the Hunt gain its benefits
but are subject to the will of the Master of the Hunt and will not act
against them.  If a member of the Hunter is also Favoured by the Lady
or may Draw Down the Moon they automatically gain a Hound of the
largest size as a companion and guardian.  The Hound does not count
against the total number of creatures included in the Hunt, may only
be affected by magical weapons, has an Endurance, Strength and Fatigue
of 30 and a TMR and other statis equal to its master.  Its DB is 50
and damge is 2d10+5.  The Hounds appear as flowing spectral froms with
green lambert eyes and tongues.

Other Notes.  The Hunt may not enter buildings, venture underground,
or enter or cross sanctified ground.  The Hunt may take to the sky as
if riding on solid ground.  The Hunt must be raised with a particular
objective in mind, e.g. scour evil from the land of Shawl this night;
or slay the ogre of Tyre.  When this objective is obtained the Hunt
fades as if dawn had come.

## The Oerth Stone

This chip of rock is in fact a piece of the Oerth Stone, a stone
intimately connected to the foundation of Oearth itself.  As such it
is of interest to many mages on Oerth and many inhabitants of the
Elemental Plane of Earth.  The has a variety of powers, some effective
in the hands of anyone, others usable only by Earth Mages and cratures
of the Plane of Earth.

### General Powers

Protection from Earth Elementals
: Elementals will not willingly approach with 50 feet of the wearer.
This protection is forgone if the wearer attacks, approaches or
attempts to charm or dominate the elemental.

Adaption
: The caster may exist and move through the Elemental Plane of Earth
without effect.  But seeing where they are going is still a problem.

Sense Gems
: The caster sense gems over 100sp value in a 10 foot radius if they
concentrate for two pulse.

### Greater Powers

Commune
: Prior to any adventure an Earth mage may ask ten Yes/No questions of
a general nature about the adventure they will be going on, provided
the questions in some way relate to the earth or concern creatures
that are in contact with, or stand upon or live within the earth.  As
stated previously, all questions must be a Yes or No nature.  If an
event relates to the future or events the GM can't answer then the
answer is "can't say / improssible to tell".

Multi-Planar Adaption
: The gem confers additonal adaption in the Quasi-Material Planes of
Gems, Magma, Dust and Silt.  Gems in a Quasi Plan where Radiance
touches Earth; Magma is where Fire touches Earth; Silt is the boundary
between Water and Earth and Dust is the boundary between the Negative
Material and Earth.

Craft Soul Gems
: Using the Oerth Stone an Earth Mage who is also Rank 8 in Gems work,
may craft a soul gem.  The cost is a point of Endurance and takes 2d10
weeks to complete.  The gem used must be a diamond of at least 10,000
sp value.  A Soul Gem may be used as part of a Trap the Soul Ritual by
an Earth Mage, Necromancer, Dark Mage, Wiccan or Enchanter.

Turn Elemental
: The Earth mage may Banish an Earth Elemental with the same chance
success as their Summon elemental chance.  This is a cast action,
requires the Oerth Stone to be presented to the elemental, but does
not cost fatigue or a pass action to prepare.  If failure occurs the
mage may not banish the elemental in question until they have further
ranked their Summoning ritual.  Attempting to turn an elemental
negates the protection value vs that elemental the Oerth Stone
normally gives.

Summoning Elementals
: Increases control and summoning chances by 1% per 2 full ranks or
fraction there of.  In addition, once per week the Earth Mage may
attempt to summon a Greater Elemental.  These Elementals are +2 points
per rank of additional strength, fatigue and andurance above those the
mage could normally summon.  These greate elementals are always
friendly to the Summoner and will never turn on them unless attacked
or injured by the Earth Mage in question (attacked includes using the
elemental as a fatigue or endurance source).  They resist banishing at
-20%.

Wall of Stone and Tunneling
: All effects increased by 50% for size, duration, area of effect etc.
If an Earth Mage is Rank 20 in both spells, all effects are doubled.


See Through Stone Talent
: The Oerth Stone may teach this Talent.  It may not be further taught
or invested.  Range is 2 feet + 1 foot per Rank.  Allows the Earth
Mage to see through stone and earth.  Oddly enough a light source is
needed by the mage for this talent to function and is stopped by iron.
EM is 250.

Troll Guard
: Thrice per week the earth mage may sprinkle soil or pebbles on the
ground to summon a troll guard (this is a fire action).  Each troll
guard summoned has endurance 40 and fatigue of 40 and a strength
of 30.  All other stats are as per the Summoner.  The troll may not be
used as a source of material components or as a sink for casting of
stroll skins or similar.  The troll(s) last 1 round per troll skin
rank of the summoner, regenerate both their fatigue and endurance back
at the rate of 1 point per round and attack for 2d10 + 6 points of
damgae, 2 attacks per round.  Srike chance is 70% normally and 100% in
close.  If a troll hits with both limbs it may bite for an additional
2d10 + 10 points of damage.  The trolls may be banished, never stray
more than 1 foot per Trollskin range from their Summoner and will
never turn on them.

Immunity to Petrification
: Just that.

Crystal Tears
: Tears from an Earth Mage in possession of the Oerth Stone may
sometimes manifest themsleves as 100sp gems.  Only tears generated by
genuine joy or sorrow may thus be manifest themselves and never more
often than once per day.  Attempts to stimulate this ability
e.g. onions, result in the Oerth Stone being lost to the users.
Crystal Tears generated by genuine joy or sorrow may be dissolved in
Holy Water to form potions of Love or Remorse.  A potion of Love
inspires fellowship, tolerenace and liking in the drinker for d10
hours.  A potion of Forgetfulness makes the character sorrowful,
maudlin and remorseful for d10 hours.  During this time the drinker
will attempt to atone for any evil they have committed.

Elemental Swarm
: Once per decade the Oerth Stone may call forth an Elemental Swarm.
The elementals summoned arrive in d20 minutes and the VERY angry at
all concerned (including the summoner) and highly destructive.  One
uncontrolled elemental arrives for each summong rank of the caster and
they arrive at the rate of one every thirty seconds after the first.
All these elementals have endurance, fatigue and strength of 100.  All
other stats are as per the caster.  Fortunately the elementals have no
idea who summoned them and simply go to work berserkly flatterning the
surrounding countryside.  They show a preference for detroying
structures of stone first, e.g. castles or stone bridges, or
underground complexes, but anything will do at a pinch.  The
elementals stay for 10 minutes per rank for the caster.

Essense of the Mountain
: The Oerth Stone provides knowledge ofthe Earth particularly in
Mountainous and Underground settings.  Mountainous, hilly and
underground terrain as level surface for the posessor of the Stone,
including walking over steep and broken surfaces up to 90 degrees and
taking no penalty to TMR or movement rate.

## Dainty Diary

The render must study this book for two weeks and expend 500ep to
learn a Courtier specialisation as if the reader was already Rank 10.

## Invested Crystal

Powers
: The crystal can hold up to ten charges of investment, not necessarily
all of the same spell.  Each charge is "stored" in one face of the
gem.

: All the requiremetns for the Inveestment Ritual must be met, except
that a psell can be invested in this item regardless of what is
already invested in the item.

Investing a spell in a face requires sucessful cast of the Investment
ritual, with all the costs that requires.

Value
: In itself, the crystal is worth 500sp.  Invested spells will add value.

Description
: A high quality colourless crystal, as big as two clenched fists, rough
cut over most its surface, with 10 cuts faces.  Each face is carved
with tiny runes in Ancient Quatarran script.

: The crystal weights 8 oz.  Like any gemstone, it is quite hard but
brittle.  It will not burn in normal fire.

Aura
: Magical, nature of magic is storage, plane of origin is Alusia.

## Sapphire Heart

Callas' heart has been replaced with an enormous sapphire, in fact a
Great Sapphire.  She may cast when not in contact with the ground,
taking a minus 20 to her Base Chances.  She is also immune to the
Specific Grievous result that penetrates the heart.

Her rechangable ring of Enchance Enchantment had been set into her new
heart.  The spell now has a range of self, with no area of effect.

## Golden Ring of Enchance Enchantment

This ornate golden ring has 4 Dragons intertwined with 4 emerald eyes
and is heavily inscribed with mystric symbols.  It contains 4 charges
of Rank 16 Enhance Enchantment.  Before triggering, the uesr must
state what is be Enchanced; Damage, Duration, Range or Base Chance.
The ring may be recharged by an Adept with Rank 16 or greater Enhance
Enchantment conducting a Rtiual Spell Preparation on the Ring (Minimum
of 1 hour and 2 Fatigue).  Provided the Ritual (Base Chance is that of
the rechargers Enhance Enchantement +3% per hour) is successful the
number of charges is increased by 1 (maximum 4).  No materials are
required.  The Base Chance of triggering is always 121% (2Ã— 18%, 3Ã—
6%).  Duration 100 seconds.  Range 30 feet.

## Kausia of Fate

Felt cap made by the 3 Fates (Moirai).  When worn on the head may be
sacrificed to avoid any fate as a free action [Used 3.2.2025].

## Hot Stone

This small pebble is placed in the mouth or swallowed.  It helps
protect against heat effects and shifts the Rate of Exercise oe row or
column in the character's favour.  Reduce damage by heat sources
(e.g. fire, light, lightning, star-fire, magma, steam etc.) by 3.
Additionally it will negate ONE failed save against a Light Sphere,
but is destroyed in the process.  When swallowed there is a straight
35% chance of the stone being passed naturally per day.  Does not
stack with other Hot or Cold Stones.

## Cold Stone

This small pebble is placed in the mouth or swallowed.  It helps
protect againt cold effect and shifts the Rate of Exercise one row or
column in the character's favour.  Reduce damage from cold sources
(e.g. darkness, dark, black-fire, void, ice, frost, freezing etc.)
by 3.  Additionally it will negate ONE failed save against a Dark
Sphere, but is destroyed in the process.  When swallowed there is a
straight 35% chance of the stone being passed naturally per day.  Does
not stack with other Hot or Cold Stones.


## Acorns of the Eternal Oak

These enchanted acorns will grow into a full-size oak over the space
of a single pulse.  To start the acorns growing, they must be thrown
onto the ground. [1 remaining].


## The Key of Love

Description
: A plain golden key about 5" long with the ring and key part being
  hearts.
  
DA
: Magical and very powerful, Finding

Value
: Priceless

GM
: Noel Livingston

Properties
: To possess this key you must be suitable, i.e. not in love or
  happily married as it will not destroy a current love.  If
  unsuitable or the owner wishes to leave it behind when they travel
  then they will feel compelled to pass it on to a more suitable
  owner.
  
  When the character travels about sith this key there is a good
  chance they will meet their one true love, or recognise each other
  as this if they have previously met.  They will then feel compelled
  to pass the key on.
  
  If they marry their one true love the character and their partner
  gain the following abilities.

  1. They have limited empathy with their partner which is cross
     planar and infinite in range, this in practice allow each other
     when concentrating to know how their partner is feeling at the
     time.  If death, wounding or extreme emotions are experience the
     partner will know without having to concentrate.
 2. The character is immune to love potions.
 3. The character is immune to the charms of nymphs and satyrs and
    other love based charming.
 4. The character is immune to courtesan seduction and similar
    abilties.
 5. The love is so pure and great and the nooky so utterly perfect
    that any other liaisons will be a pale shadow of what the
    character has.
	
GM Note.  Their one true love will almost always be opposite sex and
same species.  They will not be in love or happily married but may be
in an unhappy marriage, have parents which disapprove of the chracter
or even be the girl of the local head of the assassins guild, this is
really up to the GM.

Please let me know how many characters this item marries off cause I
like to keep score.  If thrown away, an attemp is made by someone to
destroy, cause it to vanish or it is purchased by an NPC or retired
character please contact me or feel free to reintroduce it at a later
date.

## Ben Wa's Spheres of Ecstasy

This is a pair of one and a half inch diameter, smooth, metal sphes in
a velvet drawsting pouch.  When employed in love making {veil of
decency lowers} they will allow the user to give a female partner the
most amaxing experience they have ever had, which will last up to 3
hours.  This exertion will cost both parties all of the FT (and then
some!).  If the user shows them to an unwilling or reluctant
prospetive (NPC) partner and makes an appropriate suggestion, the
target must make a 2 Ã— WP check or succumb to the wiles of the user.
This will not remove all inhibitions from the target and they will
still have their usual morals.

Bonus: For Callas the sphers may be used on males partners {queue
another veil of decency} aswell as female ones and will effect up to 3
partners at once.  The experience will last up to 6 hours and Callas
only uses half her FT while her partner(s) will be spent.  Also, her
partners will try most acts within reason at her suggestion.

## Storm Orb

This fragile orb carries the power of a storm.  When trigger electial
storm will appear for a pulse in a mega hex centered at any point
within 50ft of the caster.  All within the area suffer 2D damage
(resist for half, Air College). [4 charges].

## Death Mask

This is a golden death mask from Pharos.  Whil worn by a corpse it
preserves the body as the Healer ability of the same name with no
limit.  While a corpse wears the mask the body and its soul are immune
to all necromatntic magic and influence.  The mask weighs pounds and
is solid gold.

The mask also has a once only ability.  If the mask remains on a body
for a day or more, the next resurrection attemp on them will be
automatically successful and the person will be brought back to life
will no ill effects from the resurrection and will be fully
functioning immediately (this means they will not lose the point of
Endurance from dying).  They will also be fully cured of all curses
include death curses. [Not used].

## Orb of the Sequestration of Harm

This polished, spherical chunk of crystal us three inches across and
is transparent. The bearer can spend five minutes Casting a Sinking
Doom spell upon it, which will last for 10 minutes. Damage they
receive that does not require a Strike Check may be directed into the
earth beneath their feet. They must maintain contact with the orb and
the earth when using it but could take it from or put it in a pocket
(requiring a Free Act) and still use it so long as duration remains.
The orb may not be concealed beneath clothing while it is being used,
but may be wielded in a hand, worn in hair or what have you, so long
as they are in flesh contact with it.

A total of 20 (+6 / 4 Ranks) damage may be avoided in this way, before
it's effects are dispelled and the excess applied to the wielder.

## The Sandglass of Polycarpus

This small sandglass will measure the passage of three minutes in tiny
grains of jade whenever it is turned over.  It weighs thirteen oz and
is made from turned quartz and an extremely hard, marbled, dark blue
metal. It is unusually heavy.

The bearer may store Magical Pass Actions in the sandglass by reducing
their maximum FT value. This is done by Purifying with the sandglass
at dawn.

If one Magical Pass Action is to be stored, then the bearer's FT value
is reduced by one. If two Magical Pass Actions, then their FT value is
reduced by an additional two, if three, then an additional four.
Obviously, the amount FT value is reduced doubles for each Magical
Pass Action stored.

Only one Stored Magical Pass Action may be used in a Pulse, but it may
be combined with any other Action the bearer has available.

The bearer may begin to recover FT value as if recovering "tiredness"
FT once all of the Magical Pass Actions have been exhausted.
Subsequent Magical Pass Actions cannot be added to the sandglass until
it is empty.  It is also
a [Spell Rack](https://dq-nz.org/dqwiki/index.php/Spell_Rack).

# Points and Pools

## Clarity

Three Sanity may be converted to one Clarity during Purification which
may be spent as a Free Action to make sense of gathered information.
It cannot be used to collect information, per se, but provides an
opportunity to make sense of information that is confusing or to
winnow out deceptions.

As a Free Act, Callas may elect to penetrate an Illusion by spending
Clarity with her Enhanced Vision Talent, and, if successful, see the
underlying reality.

She may also cure mental illnesses, diseases, wounds or injuries by
adding Clarity to an attempt to Heal according to, but not limited to,
the following schedule:

Rk    Effect
---   ---
1     minor phobia, minor addictive habit
2     obssessive disorders (hand-washing, Tourettes Syndrome, compulsive tics), attention deficit
3     minor depression or mania, gluttony, sexual perversion, compulsive hoarding
4     inappropriate emotional response, delusions of grandeur, major addictive habit
5     hallucinations, hysteria, confused identity, major phobia
6     homicidal mania, clinical depression, fits & convulsions
7     epilepsy, paralysis of limb, hysterical loss of sense(s)
8     periodic catatonia, grand mal epilepsy
9     permanent catatonic state, coma
10    vegetative state


# Talents, Spells, Incantations & Rituals

## Close Casting

Callas has gained the ability to cast spells in close and/or for less
Fatigue than is normal.  This ability may be used a limited number of
times per day.  Callas must make a "Close Casting/Slough Fatigue" check
before she can use this ability.  A normal cast check for the spell is
also required.  This roll is a simple check and does not require an
action.  A failure counts as a usage of this skill.  Only one check
may be made per action.

EM
: 600

Range
: Self

Base Chance
: 1/2 MA (round up) + 3% per Rank

Rank                 Frequency                     Slough Fatigue
-------------        -------------------           ------------------------
Rank 0               1 cast in close per day       May not Slough Fatigue
Rank 3               2 casts in close per day      May not Slough Fatigue
Rank 6               3 casts in close per day      May not Slough Fatigue
Rank 9               3 casts in close per day      1 pt per cast GK only
Rank 12              4 casts in close per day      1 pt per cast GK only
Rank 15              5 casts in close per day      1 pt per cast GK only
Rank 18              5 casts in close per day      1 pt per cast - GK & Spec
Rank 20              7 casts in close per day      2 pts per cast - GK & Spec

## Witchsight Talent

Callas has gained a talent similar to the Witchsight talent of Elves.
To see invisible creatures or entities, Callas must roll under her
PC + 5 Ã— Rank in this talent.

Callas can se at night as clearly as if it were a bright day out to a
distance of 35 feet.  Each rank that she achieves with this talent
adds an extra 5 feet to this distance.

The Experience Multiple for this talent is 200.

## Resist Pain Talent

Callas has been granted the Resist Pain Talent as a Racial Talent.
Shw has until 30th of July 1995 AP to archive Rank 6 in this Talent or
it will be lost.

Callas is more or less immune to pain.  For every 2 full Ranks in this
Talent +1 is added to the amount of effect damage required to Stun her
(ie. damage required must be greater than [EN / 3] + [Rank in Resist
Pain / 2].  At Rank 20 she will not be stunned no matter how much
effetive damage she receives.  Should she become stunned, 2 times Rank
in this Talents is added to the Base Chance of recovering from stun
(ie. the calculation becomes 2 Ã— (WP + Rank in Reist Pain) + current
Fatigue.

Shw may add her Resist Pain to her Willpower for any calculation that
uses Willpower as a sistance to pain (eg. if shw were tortured).

In additon, if there is a chance that her concentration may have been
broken, 5 + 1 / Rank is always added to the Base Chance of maintaining
concentration.


## Enhancing Enchantment

Callas has been granted the spell of Enhancing Enchantment (S7 of the
College of Ensorcelments and Enchantments) as an out of College,
unteachable, Special Knowledge spell.  As such it does not gain any bonuses
from Earth College modifiers (e.g. Place of Power) but nor is it subject to
the College restrictions (i.e. it can be cast even if Callas is not in
contact with the earth).  Because it's therugic nature is slightly at odds
with elemental magic, Callas will find it a little harder to learn and cast
than normal. (EM slightly higher and BC slightly lower). Otherwise it
operates in exactly the same fashion as the E&E spell:

Range
: 15 feet + 15 / Rank

Duration
: 10 seconds + 5 / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 350

Base Chance
: 20%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Investment, Ward

Target
: Area

Effects
: The Rank of this spell is added to the Rank of one characteristic of
any spell being cast within the area of effect. Note that the actual
Rank of the affected spell is unchanged â€” only the effect of one
characteristic is enhanced (as per double and triple effects).  While
casting the Spell of Enhancing Enchantment, the adept specifies the
spell characteristic to be affected. Only Range, Duration, Base
Chance, or where appropriate) Damage, may be affected by this spell.

A spell may never have a characteristic enhanced by Ranks greater than its
own rank by the use of this spell (e.g. a Rank 6 spell that is cast within
a Rank Spell of Enhancing Enchantment will only gain the effects of 6 extra
ranks in the affected characteristic). Only spells that are cast are
affected, not spells being released from any form of storage.

The caster of the subject spell will be aware that their spell is being
affected by enhancement during the pulse that they are preparing (as per
high or low Mana). They will not know which characteristic is being
affected nor the amount of enhancement. They may not restrict the effect of
the enhancement, but may reduce the spell effects in the normal manner. If
an attempt is made to cast a Spell of Enhancing Enchantment on an area that
has some part of it under the effects of another Spell of Enhancing
Enchantment, then the second spell will fail.

Special Duration, Range, or Damage effects may be caused by the use of this
spell (e.g. Duration of Lesser Enchantment at Rank 20).

## Earth Door

Range
: Special

Duration
: One pulse

Experience Multiple
: 700

Base Chance
: 1%

Resist
: Passive only

Storage
: Potion

Target
: Self

This spell will transport the Adept and Rank / 3 other entities with
her up to 1 mile + 1 mile / 3 or fraction Ranks through the Earth.  At
Rank 20 the range is increased to 21 miles.  The Adept must be able to
see their hoped for destination or have previously visited or seen it.

The other entities must be in physical contact with the Adept and all
of the aspiring travellers must be in contact with the ground,
although they may be on, say, the second or third floor of a building
rooted in the earth.

Time to travel by Earth Door is one pulse.

This spell always Backfires on a roll of 100, regardless of Base Chance.
If the Adept wishes to travel to a point that she cannot see or has
never visited, then 30 is added to the die roll when she casts.

Should the spell backfire the result is entirely up to the GM.

## Changes of Trollskin Spell

Carzon, Lord of Oz, has modifed the Trollskin Spell for Callas.  The
range has been changed to 10 feet (+5 feet / Rank).

This change is a gift to Callas for services rendererd and is a
permanent change.  The spell may still be taught by Callas, but will
not include the modified range.

## Blending

Callas may cast her Blending Spell on objects as well as Entities.
The object becomes concealed in the environment, not invisible,
e.g. Callas casts Blending on a Wall of Stone that she has created.
The wall fades into the background and appear to be a natural part of
the envrionment, an outcrop of rocks.  The spell has *camouflaged* the
wall.  Blending things carried by Entities lose the benfit of the
spell, unless the bearer remains still, in which cse the object
becomes concealed on their person.

This version of the spell will not hide hings that are glaringly
obvious (fire, pools of water, etc) but will conceal her Wall spells,
even inside structures.

This can only be cast on objects smaller than 10ft (+ 1 per Rank of
the Blending Spell) over its greatest dimension.

Normal Witchsight chances obtain.

## Wall of Stone

Callas may add or subtract up to one foot per Rank from the height or
length of her Wall of Stone Spell, to a minimum of one foot.

## Strength of Stone

Callas may cast her Strength of Stone on herself.  However, her spell
may only affect PS or EN when cast herself.

## Strength of Stone

Carzon, Lord of Oz, has modified the Strength of Stone spell for
Callas.  The spell has been changed so that the Ranks can be
distributed over Strength and/or Endurance at the discretion of the
receiver of the spell at the time of casting.  So, if Callas has Rank
15 in SoS, the the receiver of the a casting can chose to have 15
Strength, 15 Endurance, or a combination, such as 5 Strength and 10
Endurance, which totals to the full Rank.

In addition, Gayalette, Good Witch of the South, has added her own
twiste to the spell change.  When casting on self, Callas may spread
her Ranks across Willpower as well as Strength and/or Endurance.  This
represents the Earth Mages ground in the solidity and immovability of
earth.

This change is a gift to Callas for services rendered and is a
permanent change.  This spell may still be taught by Callas, but will
not include the modifications.

## Petrification

Range
: 15 feet + 10 feet / Rank

Duration
: Special

Base Chance
: 5%

Exp. Mult
: 550

Resist
: Passive

Storage
: Trap, Ward

Target
: Substantials entities of flesh or plant matter

Effects
: Range ignores the elevation of the target.  Ranage is calculated
  from the Adept to the target along the ground.

This spell changes the target's flesh to stone, cuasing the target to
take damage and lose Agility.  This damge is [D âˆ’ 2] + 2 / Rank and
the loss to Agility is 1 + 1 / 3 or fractions Ranks.  If the target
resists then they take half damage, rounding up, and half the Agility
loss, rounding up [Multihex creatures to a minimum of 10 AG].

Agility is regained at 1 point per hour after the next dawn.

Half the value of armour, rounding down, is subtracted from the damage
of the spell, but the full value of Natural Armour applies.

In addition, damage from this spell will only reudce the target to 0
Endurance, but should the targetr fail to resist, and their EN was or
becomes 0 or less, they are immediately petrified.  That is, their
body tissue and all their posessions are turned to a stone-like
substance.

Petrified entities are not dead, and they do not lose any magic
currently in effect, but run out when the duration expires.
concentration spells and effects will be lost.

Petrification may be removed in three ways: The Specical Knowledge
Counterspell of the Petrification Spell, Curse Removal or Stone to
Flesh Ritual.

## Weapon of Mettle (S-5)

Range
: 5 feet + 5 / Rank

Duration
: 5 minutes + 1 / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 250

Base Chance
: 30%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Investment

Target
: Object

Effects
: This spell is cast over a weapon of the Adeptâ€™s choice, increasing
its strike chance by Rank% (minimum of 1). If it is cast upon a weapon
that inflicts A Class damage, then it increases the Penetration of the
weapon by 1 for every two full Ranks.  Penetration does not increase
damage, instead, it reduces the target's Protection. If cast upon a
swinging weapon (hafted B or C Class weapons and military pick), it
strengthens the weapon so that bonuses for excess PS can be applied
without possibility of weapon breakage, unless PS exceeds 40.  If it
is cast upon a weapon that inflicts C Class damage, then it inflict 1
extra point of damage for every three or fraction Ranks.  At Rank 20,
an extra D10 C Class damage is added.  Beyond the enhancement to
Strike Chance, none of these bonuses apply to B Class swords.

## Hart/Hind (S-H/H)

Range
: Self

Duration
: 1 hour + 30 minutes / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 200

Base Chance
: 30%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Potion, Ward

Target
: Self

Effects
: The Adept may transform themselves into a Hart or Hind, depending on
gender, which is not fully manifest in the real world.  While in this
spectral form, they have, instead, a combined FT and EN value of 20 (+
5 per 3 Ranks, 60 at Rank 20).  Once this value is exhausted, duration
expires or they take a Pass Action to end the spell, they resume their
original form.  Damage inflicted to the spectral form does not roll
over to their personal FT and/or EN unless this would be sufficient to
kill them outright (i.e. combined FT & EN of the spectral form +
remaining FT + (1.5 Ã— remaining EN)).

If they are under the effects of a Walking Unseen spell, then they may
not be clearly identified or directly magically targeted by sight
unless the Rank of Enhanced Vision, Witchsight or similar magic is
equal or higher.

While in this form, they can run overland at their TMR (+1 per 5
Ranks) and, over the course of a minute, enter a spectral trail where
their movement rate is 30 miles per hour (+1 mile per hour per Rank).


## Incantation of Ley Line Traversal

Spell
: Earth Door + Earth Elemental

Range
: Rank Ã— Rank Ã— 10 miles

Duration:
Conc. 10 mins + 10 mins / Rank

Resist
: None

Target
: Earth Elemental

Effects
: This incantation of the Earth Door spell allows the Adept and 1
  person (+1 per 2 Ranks) to travel with them. An Earth Elemental is
  summoned, Controlled, and then when the Earth Door is Cast,
  instructed to keep it open, extending it back to a point the Adept
  can see or has committed to their Ley Memory. They will will travel
  to this destination through the Elemental Plane of Earth. From their
  perspective, they will be traveling at a walking pace, but in
  reality their movement rate will be up to Rank miles per minute.

Adding a location to the Adept's Ley Memory costs 1 PC, takes around
four hours, and can be bought back in the usual way.

Cost
: 3,000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 4. 


## Incantation of Spell Magazine

Spell
: Smoking Magma

Range
: 25 feet + 5 / Rank

Duration
: Special

Base Chance
: 7%

Resist
: Passive

Target
: Object/Entity

Effects
: This incantation of Smoking Magma gains a number of Prepare Actions
  equal to 1 (+1 for every three Ranks) so that they may Cast a Magma
  Bolt, which will fly from their hand to hit an object or entity.
  Since the Prepare Actions have already been stored into the Spell
  Magazine, the Adept simply makes a Cast Action to Fire a Magma Bolt
  which inflicts 1 roll-up D10 + Rank fire damage, Resist for
  half.  The FT cost is paid for each bolt, however.

The magazine lasts for 10 seconds (+10 seconds per Rank) or until all
Cast Actions have been used.

Cost
: 3000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 3.

## Smoking Magma - Pyrotechnics

Range
: 60 feet + 10 / Rank

Duration
: Immediate

Resist
: Passive

Target
: Volume

Effects
: This spell may be mistaken for a Fireball. The Adept conjures a ball
  of lava 1 foot in diameter which rushes to a point in line of sight
  of the Adept, and bursts in a radius of 5 foot (+ 5 / 5 or fraction
  Ranks) with an enormous flash of light and fireworks. Any entity in
  this radius who can see is dazzled by the flash for 1 Pass
  Action. If an entity fails to Resist, + 1 / 5 Ranks more Pass
  Actions are required. Dazzled entities have their strike chances,
  cast chances and perception checks reduced by 1 (+ 2 /
  Rank). Entities without normal vision (e.g. Undead) are unaffected
  by Pyrotechnics.

Cost
: 2,000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 2.

This incantation is not teachable.


## Smoking Magma - Projectile of Lava

Range
: Touch

Duration
: Immediate

Resist
: Passive
Effects
: The Adept may transform 1 entity (+ 1 / 4 Ranks) into a Projectile
  of Lava that hurtles to any unobstructed point in line of sight up
  to 20 (+ 20 / Rank) feet away. The projectile must land within 5
  feet of an entity or a solid surface. When the projectile arrives,
  lava ejecta afflicts all entities within 1 hex causing 1 rollup D10
  fire damage. At Rank 20 the target may instantaneously return to the
  point of origin of the spell at the end of the next pulse should
  they so desire. Double and triple effects apply to range only. This
  spell affects only willing targets and will not work underwater. Any
  barriers, wards etc that are passed over affect the targets as if
  crossed normally.

Cost
: 2,500

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 2.

This incantation is not teachable.

## General Knowledge Counterspell of the College of Earth Magic - Heat Sink

Range
: Self

Duration
: 10 minutes (+1 / Rank)

Resist
: None

Effects
: This spell protects the Adept against damage by fire and heat for 5
  (+ 3 / Rank) points of protection. Protection is ablative and when
  the damage the spell may absorb is exceeded, the spell is dissipated
  with any excess damage applied to the target. Double and triple
  effects may apply to duration or degree of protection. At Rank 20
  the spell confers 80 points of protection.

Cost
: 2,000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 2.

This incantation is not teachable.

## Tunneling - Temblor of Antaeus

Range
: 15 feet + 15 / Rank

Duration
: 5 seconds + 5 / Rank

Resist
: None

Target
: Area

Effects
: By the use of this spell the Adept causes the very earth to pitch
  and roll uncontrollably as though in a tremendous earthquake. The
  area that may be affected is a one hex area of ground (+ 1 /
  Rank). Any Entities within the Area must roll less than or equal to
  1 Ã— AG to retain their footing. Those who fail to remain standing
  fall prone immediately and may not rise for the duration. Objects
  within the area will tend to topple and roll around. If the spell is
  cast under part or all of, a building, wall, or other such
  construction, significant structural damage will occur, probably
  causing partial or total collapse.

Cost
: 3,000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, Adept must crush a gem, reduces FT value by 2.

This incantation is teachable to one other, only.

## Wall of Stone - Column of Ascension

Range
: 20 feet (+10 / Rank)

Duration
: 5 Pulses (+1 / 4 Ranks)

Resist
: Passive

Target
: Entity

Effects
: The target of this spell and anyone else who can fit at the time of
Casting, rises on a column of stone to a height of 10 feet (+ 1 /
Rank) which is a hex across. At Rank 14, the column is a megahex
across and at Rank 20, 25 feet across.  When the spell ends, the
column slides back into the earth.

Cost
: 2,000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 2.

This incantation is not teachable.

## Benediction of Land and Beast (R-B)

Range
: Sight

Duration
: 3 months for every Rank that is prime

Experience Multiple
: 125

Base Chance
: 45%

Resist
: None

Cast Time
: 1 hour

Target
: Area, Livestock, Entity

Effects
: The ritual increases the richness of the soil of 1 acre (+ 1 acre /
Rank).  For the duration of the magic everything grown in that soil
will be proof against locusts, droughts, flooding, frost, and other
natural disasters.

If the ritual is cast upon a pregnant entity, it will increase the
unborn child's EN value by one, raising it by three at Rank 10 and
finally raising it by six at Rank 20.

It can also be cast upon 5 (+ 1 / Rank) livestock that are within
sight. These animals will then be resistant to natural disorders, such
as rabies, dysentery, worms, and hoof and mouth disease for the
duration.

Finally, it can be cast to dissipate the effects of a Spell of
Blighting Crops or Spell of Pestilence.

## Ritual of Enchanting Crystals

Range
: 10 feet (+5 feet / Rank)

Experience Multiple
: 300

Base Chance
: 75% + 1% / Rank

Cast Time
: 1 hour

Effects
: Callas can enchant a crystal into a Crystal of Vision of equal Rank.

Callas can add Clarity to a crystal which will make it at least
translucent and likely transparent, improve it's gem qualities, and if
it has been made by the Gem Creation spell, will change its duration
to Immediate.

In addition, she may store visible memories by enchanting crystals according to the following schedule:

Rk    Effect
---   ---
1     store a static image (object or entity) in the crystal.
3     store the image of an entity
5     store the image of a scene
7     project a static image stored in the crystal
9     project the image of an entity stored in the crystal
11    project the image of a scene stored in the crystal
13    animate the projected static image stored in the crystal
15    animate the projected image of the entity stored in the crystal
17    animate the projected image of the scene stored in the crystal
18    make a static image stored in the crystal real for one minute, destroying it
19    make the image of an entity stored in the crystal real for one minute, destroying it
20    make the image of a scene stored in the crystal real for one minute, destroying it


## Ritual of Creating Restorative Waybread

Duration
: Special

EM
: 250

Base Chance
: MA + Herbalist Rank + 3 / Rank

Resist
: May not be resisted

Cast time
: 14 days - 1 day per 2 full days

Actions
: Cooking

Materials
: Cauldron, common grains, honey etc.

Conc Check
: None

The Adept may drate thin but hightly nutritious wafers that restore FT
at the rate outlined below.
  
  Rank   Fatigue Restored
  ----   ----------------
  0      1
  1-2    2
  3-4    3
  5-6    4
  7-9    5
  10-14  6
  15-19  12
  20     24
  
This Waybread lasts until the next Solstice or Equinox, and the Adept
may successfully cast this Ritual only once per Seaon.  Failed casts
do not count.
  
A successful cast produces 1 wafer + 1 per 2 full Ranks.
  
Five minutes after eating wafer, FT will be restored as determined by
Rank.  The waybread will restore FT lost any means except cureses.

Waybread is very filling, and may be used to replace a meal without
penalty.  Weight is 1 oz.
  
The Ritual does not backfire.
  

## Trap the Soul Ritual

Taught by the Oerth Stone.  May be further taught to Earth Mages,
Wiccans, Necromancers, Dark Mages, Enchanters.

EM
: 600

Cast Time
: 24 hours - 1 hour per rank

Base Chance
: 20% + Willpower + 3% / Rank - (target's willpower + resistances)

Resistance
: Passive

Range
: 100 yards per Rank

Both target and caster must be in contact with the ground for this
ritual to work.  The target's Willpower plus any resistances they have
reduce the base chance of success.  If the ritual is successful the
target's soul is drawn forth fromn their body and into the gem.  If
the ritual fails the gem is shattered and can never be repaired.  A
caster may use this ritual on themsleves to hide or store their soul.
Provided no one else finds the soul this is fine.  If they are found
then they are subject to the whim of the new owner and must obey their
commands without hesitation.  A body not currently posssessed of a soul
makes all checks vs possesion or domination at +30%.  If the Oerth
Stone is used by a mage as part of this ritual, resistance is based on
a subtraction for raw Willpower alone.  The target must be personally
known (ie met in person) for this ritual to work.

## Elemental Warding

Range
: 25 feet + 25 / Rank

Duration
: 1 day + 1 / Rank (30 days at Rank 20)

Experience Multiple
: 100

Base Chance
: 100% + 4 / Rank

Cast Time
: 1 hour

Resist
: None

Target
: Area, structure, wall

Material
: Chalk, paint, blood, cornmeal, ink or other symbol making materials

Actions
: Chanting and inscribing symbols

Concentration Check
: Standard

Effects
: This Ritual seals an area, structure or wall against entities from
the elemental planes. The Adept must know the name of the planes, and
the name of the plane that the Adept is currently occupying cannot be
used. No entity whose plane of origin has been sealed against can
voluntarily enter the sealed area. They will be stopped at the
boundary as is all their Talent, Spell and Ritual Magic. Any entity
taken into the area against their will (or without their knowledge,
e.g. unconscious) will attempt to leave the area as quickly as
possible. If an attempt is made to summon an entity from the named
plane into the area the summoning will fail. Any entities from the
named plane that are inside the area when the sealing is created are
unaffected, but should they leave the area they will be unable to
reenter it.

Non-namers can learn and rank it as a ritual. They may attempt to
perform it quickly but each 10-minute reduction reduces the Base
Chance by 6% to a minimum of 10 minutes and 70%.

Namers can learn and rank it as a spell. They may attempt to perform
it quickly but each 10-minute reduction reduces the Base Chance by 2%
to a minimum of 1 minute and 88%.

Elemental Wards can protect areas or structures within an existing
Elemental Warding. The number of layers is a function of rank:

-------- -------- ---
Rank	 0		    1
Rank	 1-4		2
Rank	 5-8		3
Rank	 9-12		4
Rank	 13-16		5
Rank	 17-19		6
Rank	 20		    7
-------- -------- ---

### Modifiers

-----------------------------------------  ----
Inscribed in earth, ice, sand or similar	-20
Winds above 25 mph				            - 5
Winds above 50 mph				            -10
Winds above 75 mph				            -15 
-----------------------------------------  ----

Travelling circles may be made but tend to be bulky and expensive. The
symbol necessary for this ritual is large enough for the target to sit
in, and is inscribed in precious metals.

Metal		Add	    Cost
---         ---     ---
Silver 	 	+ 3	    1,000 sp
Gold 	 	+ 7	    10,000 sp
Platinum 	+ 10	15,000 sp
Truesilver 	+ 15	20,000 sp


# Abilities

## Blessed by Moonlight

The Lady has blessed the character such that the next irrevocable
death the character experiences results in their re-incarnation at the
place of the moon power of the character's choice.  This effect is at
the player's discretion but may not be activated by suicide.

## Drawing Down of the Moon

Female characters are gifted with a vial of moon-silver which may be
used to Draw Down the Moon.  This power enables the character to
invoke the name of the lady once per season under the full moon.  The
vial will then fill with Monlight which may be drunk or stored as a
potion.  The potion may be Fertility - effects females only, Love -
effects males only with respect to females; Shadow Walking - effects
all, Skyclad - effect females only; or a Horned blessing - effects all

Fertility is as per a Wiccan Rank 10 *Fertility* but PB is also
increased by 5 up to the racial maximum.  This effect last until the
rising of the next full moon.

Love is a per the Wiccan rank 10 *Love Philtre* and the name of the
one to be loved may also be embedded in the potion.

Shadow Walking is as per a Rank 10 *Shadow Walking* Spell, but the
effect only applies under the open sky or in the Wilds.  This effect
will not work underground or indoors.

Skyclad - increases the character's effective MA by 3, and luck by 2
and makes character purified until the rising of the next moon.

Horned Blessing marks the drink as under the Hunter's Moon.  A Hunter
may pursue their prey without tiring over all terrains at double their
TMR for one hour per hightest ranked weapon, warrior or ranger skill.
The strike chance of the hunter is increased by 10 for the duration of
the effect, initiative is at +10 and dmage result an extra die being
rolled.

The Ritual of Drawing Down the Moon requires the vial, a full moon in
the night sky and fifteen minutes of prayer and quiet contemplation.

NB: Were-creatures will hesitate to attack the bearer of the vial - 3
Ã— Willpower check required.

## Lunar Aspect

Characters are blessed with a Lunar Aspect during times of the full
moon.  They do not suffer from the ill effects of possesion of a Lunar
Aspect at other times.  Additionally they are Aspect Blessed for the
full nights of Samahain and Belataine.  This Aspect is not cumulative
with other effects - the best effect applies at the time.

## Moonsight

Characters may see as in full daylight if under the sky and when the
full moon is visible.

## Bonus Rank in Unarmed Combat

Callas has defeated herself at the Temple of War and had gained an
additional Rank in Unarmed Combat (ie she may Rank Unarmed to Rank 11
[EP cost: 4000]).

## Return to True Form

Once a quarter -- at exactly noon on each of the four high holidays of the
year -- Callas's True Form will be restored as though a Rank 20 Ritual of
True Form (R6 of the College of Naming Incantation) had just been
successfully completed upon her.  As a reference for the GM the effects of
this Ritual are:

Effects
: By means of this ritual the Adept may force a target that has been
magically altered, cursed, or rearranged into a form other than their
natural one to assume their true form and nature. It will not remove
effects that could occur naturally. For example, the ritual would restore
the form of a human that had been cursed into the shape of a toad, and
would return to flesh a human turned to stone but would do nothing to
remove a curse of weeping sores or restore a lost limb.

## Callas' Arresting Gaze
Range
: 10 feet (+5 feet / Rank)

Duration
: Special

Experience Multiple
: 300

Base Chance
:  Automatic

Cast Time
: Magical Fire Action

Effects
: This magic does not normally miss, and neither can it
generate Double or Triple Effects. Callas has a gaze that she can fix
on an entity or an object that can fit inside a volume of one hex (+
one hex for every ten Ranks). Objects or entities of greater size
cannot normally be affected.

The effects of the gaze are Avoided or Opposed, not Resisted, and if
this is done, then nothing happens to them. For a target that
succumbs, however, the current Pulse does not end for them . They do
not lose Actions directly, however, abilities that reset at the end of
the current Pulse or the beginning of the next will not be renewed as
the Future is warded away from them. Similarly, entities afflicted
with continuous damage like bleeding wounds, Greek Fire, poison, the
End of Pulse Stun Recovery check, etc. will no longer experience them
until She lifts her gaze, and provided she maintains the cost each
Pulse. She cannot maintain the effect on multiple targets since she
can only gaze at one thing at a time but she can lift it at any time
without using any kind of Action at all.

Her gaze is Avoided if the target Breaks 100 and adds AG to the
result, or WP if the effect is to be Opposed. This halves the Stat
involved or reduces it by ten, whichever is the least, and lasts until
the end of the next Pulse.

This magic draws one from a special reserve in her 'heart' . This
starts at five, and may be raised by one at the end of an Adventure or
Season, whichever is least, at a cost of two thousand five hundred
Experience. It recovers as if it were normal FT, but only after all
normal FT has been restored.

## Rank 11 Sabre

Teaching of one unique ability to Rank 11.  This ability may be
possessed by no other until irrevocable death occurs.  Time containts
still apply for training.  This can include weapon Ranks.

## Eyes of Crystal Vision

Callas' eyes have been replaced with Saphires with gold irises.  This
enables her to have sharp, crystal clear vison, able to see though
obsurement up to 150 feet (as per the Illusion Enchanced Vision
Talent), and distinguish features as if they were a tenth of the
distance.

Should these eyes be removed from her body they will dissolve into
tiny shards of worthless value.  These eyes can be regrown by a Rank
10 Healer as per vital organs will not be affected by her dying and
being resurrected.

## Hero of Seagate

Description
: This Character was part of the party which for no profit killed the
child eating giant troll of Seagate harbour.  Normally this amy have
been overlooked by any but a few of the witnesses, however it was
witnesssed by a troupe of bards travelling through Seagate at the time
and they created a play with the names of the participants included in
the story.  This play is very good (Rank 9) and will be played in
various forms throughout the Western Kingdom.

The Play
: Callas is portrayed as a beautiful princess, mage and champion of
the light who calls upon the very forces of nature itself, summong
dozens of thousand foot elementals who do battle with the evil giant
troll as tall as the clouds.

The Good Side
: Anyone who recognises this character as the member in the play will
have their reactions appropriately adjusted as the mass of public
opionon is that this character is a hero.  This will orverride any
antipathy towrds the Adventurers Guild of Seagate with Callas being
judged upon her mertis alone, not those of the Guild as a whole.  No
Assassins Guild will accept a contract on this character as killing
heroes is bad for business due to the inevitable harsh crackdown and
public antipathy.  Independant assassins may be warned off by the
regular guilds also.

The Bad Side
: The character will be expected to be heroic, behaving in a cowardly,
evil or non heroic manner will cause people to seriously question the
heroic status of the character and may result in modifications to the
play in future years with this character becoming a dark villain or
coward.  Future GMs should feel free to change how this character is
portrayed to the public if their behaviour warrents.

## Paragon of Female Beauty

Callas had been blessed as a paragon of beauty.  This effects acts as
a Rank 5 Charm spell on males should they fail a saving throw at -15%.

## Flame Tattoo

Callas has a tattoo of a line of flames aroun her torso just above her
naval.  The flames are magically real and flamelike so are quite
realistic, but shed no light / heat etc.

This tatoo will remain unless the area is destroyed.

## Life Aspect

Callas is Life-Aspected, except that the die roll modifier is caused
by destroying Undead.  Destroying Lesser Undead subtracts 5 from die
rolls, destroying Greater Undead subtracts 10 from die rolls.  There
is no other die roll modifer as a rsult of this aspect, however the DM
may assign a penalty if they see fit.  This apsect reflects a
connection to a Power of Trust, Undead existence being a primal
deception of Life itself.

This aspect change does not replace any aspect other than Death
Aspect, this aspect being in addition.  Thus Callas might be aspected
Spring/Earth/Life.

Any other Life-Aspect effect is ove-ridden by this one, so they are
immune to the result of having a standard Life-Aspect infliced on
them.

Duration and range is an for Death-Aspect, the effects are not
cumulative, but the greatest modifier applies.

## Life Undying

Callas does not die of old age, but may die of violence etc.  She is
not immune to the effects of magical aging, each year over 70 reduces
all her primary and secondary by one, to racial minimum.

## Lifetime Guild Membership

These members are now very respected and well liked in the eyes of the
Guild.  They are exempt from all Guild taxes.  The guild is in many
ways indebted tothem and its employees and representatives will always
be nice to them.  Guild employees may find themselves peeling potatoes
if their service to them is substandard.  Generally the guild will
extend services tothem when thees services cost the guild nothing to
itself, i.e. translation, the odd Shadow Wings, maybe an astrology
reading now and then, etc.

## Fatigue Limit

Callas may increase her Fatigue stat by one point per season, provided
she adventured in that season, at the cost of 2500EP.  They may exceed
racial maximums.

## Kerykeion of Hermes

This simple darved wooden staff has two snakes entwined at the top.
It bestows on the wielder one rank in the Healer skill.

## Immunity to Fear

Callas is immune to fear effects from any source, including spells.
This doesn't apply to fear caused by Dragons, Demons and Powers,
whether they are pig ugly, have a special ability or they cast spells
to cause it.


# Property

## Castle

Callas has gained a small keep in the Duchy of Verbobnoc.  The keep
has a central tower 60ft high and four small towers forty feet high,
two of which flank a gate house 20 feet broad.  The gate towers occupy
one corner of the keep and the main tower is in the corner farthest
from the gates.  The keep is grarrisoned by twenty regular soldiers
who are longbow specialists armoured in leather, four sergeants
(chain, longsword) and a captain (plate and longsword).  All have a
light war-horses and remount.  The staff of the keep number thirty
five, the walls are 70 feet between towers.  A 5 foot dry moat
surrounds the keep.  The area commands a radius of 12 miles and
services a population of 4,000.  The area is rich in fruit trees and
grains, a little iron ore and a stand of hardwoods, an oak forest
around two miles in diameter.  The keep fronts the main trade road in
Verbobnoc.

Income per sea after taxes, tithes and costs is 600 silver pennies.
The keep is sub-fifed from Duke James of Verbobnoc, a tolerent and
well meaning half-elven ruler.  Around 1,200 of the population are
gnomes an 800 dwarves.  The inhabintants are happy with their lot and
are trained to form a militia of unusual strengh and morale.

## Val Estate

- Count of Borderlay Manor
- Val Estate Ruins

Given your recent gift (of 100,000 SP) to the Count, the Count of
Borderlay has invested Lady Callas Verdicini and Verdicini family of
her line with the ruin estates of Val a 4,600 acres holdings outside
the small Valyere town in northeast Borderlay close to County of
Borovia border, about 5 miles away from the edge of the local forts.

As of Blossom 817 WK - your estates have 135 families living there at
this time.  Rumours of missing locals, underground ruins and dungeon,
persist to this day. Retaining staff members is said to be hard
because of the ghosts.

The house comes with; four stories being basement, ground, first
floor, & attic. The six staff members have bedrooms in the attic
level. All of the stable hands and groundsmen and woodcutter have a
small cottage in the lower garden.

The manor house is large but old with two ruined mills and six bridges
which have been knocked out since the Drow took Borovia.  The area is
rich in food and has a copper mine in the hills to the north and same
rumours of Faye living in a wood that locals call the Enchanted Woods.


# Used & Not appliable

## Favour of the Lady

A lock of hair on a character's head becomes tinged with silver,
marking the character as having the favour of the lady.  All
were-creatures will hestitate to attack one favoured by the lady lest
her reath full upon them - 3 Ã— willpower check required.  Additionally
all combats fought by male characters under the night sky, under a
full moon or while in dark foretss will result in the arrival of a
night creature to aid the character.  Creatures summoned will be of
normal creatures but of maximum size, un-naturally quiet - stealth of
130%, and will fight to the death to preserve th echracter's life.
Typical creatures are large owls, casts, hounds or wolves in urban or
rural environments are stags or large felines in the wild.  If a
character is dead or unconscious the creature will guard the body
until help arrives or the rising of the next moon.  The creature will
arrive in d10+1 pulses. [Not not apply to Callas].


## Incomparable Duelling Pair [Given to Sabastian]

This is a matched set of duelling blades, a Rapier and a Mains
Gauche.  They are of the highest quality and inlaid with an intricate
black adamantium filigree in the form of a long stemmed rose with its
thorned stalk wound round the blade ending at the pommel in the shape
of a rose flower in adamantium.  The blades are indestructible and
always sharp.  While wielding these blades in a duel they confer the
following benefits.

Rank 10 in both Rapier and Mains Gauche or one ligher than the
opponent, whichever is greater.

They never miss.  Roll to ttack as normal counting all misses as a
normal FT hit as long as hitting the target would be possible.  If a
drop or break fumble is rolled and the 3Ã—MD check is not passwd the
blades will disappear, unwilling to be wielded by such an incompetent.

While evading, if an opponent missed and the wielder scores a riposte,
they will catch the opponents weapon with the Mains Gauche and break
it (assuming the opponent's weapon is of a reasonable size, i.e. not a
giatn weapon and it can actually be broken).

Bonus: If Sabastian wields these weapons in a duel, as his first
attack he can inflect the slashed cheek specific grievous on his
opponent automatically.

## Falling Leaves [Used]

Each of these leaves was harvested and dried by Gayalette, Good Witch
of the North on Oz, and imbued with special power. When crushed and
infused in hot water, one helping of a brown tea can be made. The
drinker of this tea will be completely immune to all forms of damage
and effects from Earth, or Earth based magics, for a period of one
season (13 weeks).

This includes, but is not limited to:

*	Falling great distances to land on earth or stone
*	Being hit by an Earth Elemental
*	Being grabbed by a Hand of Earth
*	Being crushed by a boulder. Though they may be trapped, they will not be crushed.
*	Being hit by any weapon made of stone or earth.

The leaves will last indefinitely till used.

## The Rose of Little Thorn [gone]

In appearance this is a perfectly ordinary red rose with a 12" long
thorny stem, it has exquisite fragrance and is unblemished and would
be considered an almost perfect specimen.  For a year and a day it
will provide the benefits below, after which it will turn to ash
becoming non-magical.  It is however remarkably durable, and can
withstand damage similar to say a fired clay brick, then it will also
turn to ash and lose all powers.

Name may invoke one power per day (renews at dawn) by holding The Rose
and using a trigger action:

Fragrance of Tranquility 
: A single entity can be allowed to truly smell The Rose and will have
a fleeting vision of a peaceful city on a sunlit meadow, for some
reason this will be intensely calming and will negate almost all
extreme tendencies.  This will instantly cure effects such as Berserk
Rage, Hysteria, Phantasm (Mind S6) or other psychological influences
both natural and magical.  Most who smell the Fragrance of
Tranquility will be amiable (+25 reaction), or at least willing to
have dialogue, but usually have a wistful longing to find the city in
the vision ever after.

Coming of Spring
: A single non-sentient plant may be restored to exceptional vitality.
This will cure diseases, remove and make immune to parasites and
magically grow and repair any branches, leaves and flowers which would
normally occur for the season.  The effect lasts until the next winter
or a year and a day, whichever is first.

Nature's Calling
: Name may draw upon The Rose to enhance their horticultural
abilities.  When held throughout a spell, ritual or ability they may
double their effective rank (no maximum).  This will only enhance
non-hostile effects, so would not work if say Healing (Earth G-6)
could damage an undead creature, despite usually being considered a
non-hostile spell.  Suitable things to double include Earth G2, G6,
G10, S8 (see caveats), Wica S1 and S19, appropriate Alchemist,
Herbalist and Artisan skills.  If the total time to enact the ability
exceeds the new dawn rising it will fail.

Necessity of Pain
: Name may transform The Rose into a two-handed sword.  It will revert
back to The Rose each dawn, but if broken will turn to ash and lose
all magical properties.  The blade is wooden and may have a weapon
spell cast upon it.


Thorn Blade:

Wt	PS	MD	SC	    DM		Class	Use	
--  --- --- --- ----------  ------  ---
5	11	14	75	2D10 + 10	A & B	 M

The Long Sorrow
: Name may invoke resistance to poisons.  By drawing the thorns across
their flesh to create a bloody gash and holding The Rose in the wound,
causing 1EN damage and 1 point bleeder thereafter, they will become
immune to all poisons, venoms or other blood toxins.  They will stop
bleeding and the effects will cease once The Rose is removed, they
have bleed out all their FT and EN to 0 or dawn rises.
