---
title: The Dragon Court of Ambra
author: Ishamael
date: Thaw, 797 WK
---

# Party Members

Kate
:   E&E and party leader.

Ishamael
:   Dark Celestial and party scribe.

Kam
:   Young boy of sorts.

Galand
:   Poncy elf Illusionist.

Kryn
:   Kryn.

# Diary

## Thaw 8, 797 WK

Meet party employer, Randolf Peridale II, a hobbit of independant means.
He wanted to employ the party of retrieve an item from the Dragon Court
of Ambra, on the plane of Ambra. The pay was 50,000 silver pennies, but
the cost of the item, should be have had to purchase it, would have been
deducted.

The employer had an item should would transport us to Ambra and back as
needed. We decided on a cover and left. The cover decided apon was the
following.

Kate
:   Lady Kathlene of Mittelmach Hauptstadt, going on a shopping trip.

Kryn
:   Sir Christopher of Bowcourt.

Galand
:   Sir Geovani of Elfenburg.

Ishamael
:   Reeve Geoffrey of Eltrandor.

Kam
:   Squire Cottle.

We arrive during the morning in Ambra. The place was very picturesque
with rolling fields, copses of trees and straight hedgerows. The land
was all very civilised in a pastural way. We turned up in a field about
five miles from the keep.

We travel into town along a paved road which meandered is a pleasant
fashion into a town which was all too clean and nice to be real. In the
town, over which the keep looks from its position situated on a small
hill, we stop at a tavern. There we meet a Bard by the name of Manam,
would had recently returned to Ambra from Alusia. From him we received
some useful information.

-   The Ruler is called Sivley.
-   His son, the Prince of Kaloria (who has the item), is the crown
    prince.
-   Currently visiting the court where three groups.
    -   Two elves from Alusia but not from Elfheim.
    -   A noble of sorts from Alusia, which two female assissants and
        two hillgiant guards.
    -   A group of nobles from the north of Ambra.

Manam gives each of us a sash made from silk which disguises their aura.
It also enables the wearer to comprehend and speak Ambran fluently, but
does not help when trying to read the language.

After a discussion on chess and various game tactics, we make our way to
the castle. At the castle we are presented to the court. The Ruler has
short dark hair, aged between twenty to thirty, wearing purple. The
throne is stone carved to look like a wyvern. Next to the Ruler was a
man in brown habit, called Doctor Versalt.

The Ruler was, throughout the visit, except once, very distant, and
behaved as if completely outside the normal happenings of the court. The
court itself was thoughly dedicated to following fashion. The fashions,
it seemed, were all part of the game, and changed regularly.

One important consideration was the difference between being female and
being a Lady, and likewise, being a man and being a Lord. Ladies wore
dresses and make up, and Lords wore trousers and coats. Women could be
Lords and men could be Ladies, depending on dress, but couples were
always man and female. There was once exception to this, where both the
woman and the man where Lords, for reasons explained later.

All nobles of the court can cast magic. This is mainly minor magic and
apart from Versalt there didn't do seem to be any serious mages. There
was plenty of illusions and glamours, but all were friviously. The place
itself was very magical. The walls stopped scrying and there were many
examples of bound magic. Versalt probably a Shaper.

The courtroom was a large retangular room with two levels of balconies
(three stories plus roof). Various coridors and wings lead from the
balconies with stairwells at each corner. After the introduction we were
lead to our rooms on the first floor. From their we investigated the
immediate surrounds to find the library, a music room and gaming rooms
on the second floor.

The remainder of the afternoon taken by Lady Kathlene and a dressmaker,
so while away until evening dinner playing music in the music room with
Manam.

Dinner was a civilised affair, without pomp or ceremony. Afterward the
crowd (12 noble couples plus visitors) mingled for a while before
settling into cliques, mainly around the three dukes.

During the dinner Cottle manages be landed by Lady Freya and she goes
head over heels about him. It all turns to trouble when her father (Duke
Jarlyle) catches them doing hanky-panky on the second floor. He forces
Cottle into getting married to Freya, who by now positively glows and
her eyes light up at the very mention of Cottle's name.

The evening closes and couples drift away until about midnight. During
the night I checked out the library but it was occupied by Jarad and
Tania so come about at dawn.

## Thaw 9, 797 WK

I studied in the library for about three hours but without knowing
written Ambran I didn't make much progress. From the previous night we
had agreed to go bear hunting with Prince Jarvik.

About midmorning we set off and ride for about an hour. Geovani decides
not to come and instead goes riding with Gwendolin. The Prince comes
along and so does Duke Hama. Her husband is only a baron but is a Lord
(being the exception to the rules). The fights are very contrived and
the whole event completely riduculous. The place has been without war
for atleast five generations and real blood and guts death and horror
has been lost. The hunt, like everything else, was just a game.

Arrive back late afternoon, having done badly in the fight, but healed.
We head for the baths where we meet Jarad. He says he is working for an
Alusian noble who was trying to trace their lineage. The noble believed
his ancestors may have had been through Ambra about 170 years ago. The
noble hired Jarad to research the library here for clues.

Later one we meet Elrath in the corridor. He has a weapon cut down one
arm but seems happy, or atleast smug. Find out later he had run-in with
Jarad and came off the better.

As we head down to dinner we meet Doctor Versalt, who asks us what the
theme to the up and coming ball (several days away, and the date of
Cottle's betroval). After a discussion, it was decided on that it should
be a Masqurade. He also asks that if we can tell him who the White and
Black Queens are, he will give us some help.

At dinner the first thing noted was the Prince was formally and
seriously dressed, and the Ruler was taking an interest in what was
going on around him. Duke Jarlyle was notable by his absence. Later Duke
Jarlyle is marched in under guard. He confronts the Ruler and after some
comments by the Ruler which were missed, he leaves and is banished from
the court.

Cottle gets terribly upset about this and quickly tries to find his
loved one, but within minutes all records of the Duke are gone,
including any memories the court members had of him. It was if he had
never existed. Cottle got very upset about this and with Galand tried to
follow a servant. They found a hidden passage but they didn't
investigate.

Back at dinner arrange with Lord Jarad to meet outside the castle in the
morning. Arrage with Elrath to meet the next afternoon. The court itself
went on oblivious to what had happen.

Later that evening we investigate the cellars. There we find out that
all the servants are petit morted during their off times. There is
something missing in the setup and I think they would also have to been
slept or hibenated, otherwise they would eventually go insane from sleep
deprivation.

All the hot water was created from a flask with bound fire (possibly an
elemental) in it, with pipes from a Tap into the Elemental Plane of
Water. Very sophisicated and clever. I am certainly impressed by it and
the plumping it an outstanding piece of engineering.

There was also a Sphere of Creation, which must be some sort of Ritaul
of Binding Mind Magics, which creates mundate items and food. They also
had a Sphere of Annilation, to get rid of stuff. The whole thing looked
like a way out of having to the Ruler deal with reality.

## Thaw 10, 797 WK

Have sword practice with the Prince. Discuss happenings and broach
question of borrowing item (a sword as it turns out). Come to an
agreement but have to act on it quickly.

We leave the keep about mid morning and go into town. Just outside town
we meet Lord Jarad. He says he has been employed to keep an eye on us,
but does not tell us by whom. We came to an agreement where by we give
him an abridged version of what we got up to and in return he kept out
of our way and help us out on the side.

Later have picnic with Elrath. Lots of verbal fencing. Find out that he
is working for his master, but not who his master is. Galand makes some
headway with Andrana.

## Thaw 11, 797 WK

Meet with Prince and arrange to borrow the sword. It turns out to be
Lord Sutre's Bane. After recovering from the panic arrange for payment.

I depart back to Alusia and meet with our employer. Arrange with a
friend (Sabastian Dragonrider) to do sculpture of a dragon in quartz.
Find out when Randolf was there, 15 years ago, there were five Dukes. At
the time the party was talking to Manam. Find out a bit more about the
place and who is pulling the strings.

The party (except myself) leave and go back to Alusia.

## Thaw 12, 797 WK

Randolf and Sabastian turn up in morning with quartz. Randolf has victim
to take the sword. Receive payment. I stay for a couple of weeks while
Sabastian works. Finally leave several months later.

# Members of the Court

The Ruler
:   Sivley. The adjudicator of all that happens.

Prince Tarrant
:   Prince of Kaloria. All muscule and no brains. Looks about 18, and
    extremely fit. Good frontline troop material.

Doctor Versalt
:   The person who keeps the game running smoothly.

Duke Jarlyle of Fortaia
:   An old, portly man, with five daughters.

Duke Hama of Landfast
:   A woman who is a lord. A warrior.

Duke Aranan of Tarthia
:   Lord and noted scholar on magical items.

Count Isterion of Endmoot
:   A tall man who usually wore a full length sabre and looked as if he
    could use it.

Baron Nessa
:   Wife of Count Isterion.

Baron Aria of Westron
:   A Lord (but female) of little note.

Baroness Ronan
:   A man and hushand to Baron Aria.

Lady Gwendolin
:   Daughter of Isterion and Nessa.

Lady Corena
:   The Prince's latest bird. The lights were on but nobody was home.

Lady Freya
:   Youngest daughter of Jarlyle.

Baroness Buchanan
:   A noble from the south and leading lady of the court.

Lady Marla
:   Doweger of the court.

Prince Jarvik
:   Son of King Gorak from the north. Bit of a barbarian.

Baron Weyreth of Dirwood
:   Son of Duke Hama and leading young lord of the court.

Lord Jarad of Eltrandor
:   Leader of the group from Alusia and professional researcher.

Tania
:   Rune mage and scholar.

Marie
:   Namer and thief.

Elrath
:   Elf from Alcarzê.

Andrana
:   Elrath's body slave for 100 years. Elf from Elfheim.
