---
title: Lost on Eyrth
author: Tulip
date: 22/02/802
---

# Party

  --------------- -----------------------------
  Game Master     Ross Alexander
  Party Leader    Sebastian (Terry Spencer)
  Party Scribe    Tulip (Tricia Hunt)
  Party Members   Uzi (Zane Hembest)
                  Sabrina (Tulip\'s war wolf)
  --------------- -----------------------------

Uzi and Tulip arrive in a dessert on Eyrth when caught in a magical sand
storm on plane of Kalbaf, luckily we have all our travelling equipment
and the camels. Sebastian arrives from a party on Alusia, he has only
the clothes he is standing in.

# Diary

## Date: 22/02/803

Walk through the dessert toward some birds we can see in the distance,
find a seashore, and along this a fortified port town. Get supplies and
pay for passage to Suez.

## Date: 23/02/803

On ship.

## Date: 24/02/803

Arrive at Seuz in evening, find an inn, change money. Book passage with
a merchant to Gaza should take about one week to get there. We are
attacked in the night, but manage to beat them off or kill them.

## Date: 25/02/803

Go to the slave market and by (the only) slave that speaks common and
the local language. Feed and heal him. Return to the inn to collect our
stuff and then transfer to Merchants camp the night.

## Date: 26/02/803 - 02/03/803

Travel in Merchant train toward Gaza. While we are travelling, Sebastian
reads the stars and Uzi uses his precognitive crystal to try and get an
idea of how to get back to Alucia. We get a variety of pictures/ways to
get home, one is of the "Dome of the Rock" in Jerusalem and the best way
to get back is to be found in Florence. Arrive in Gaza on the evening we
obtain supplies and begin our journey to Jerusalem.

## Date: 03/03/803

Travelling together along well defined road from Gaza to Jerusalem. We
are attacked by deserters from the Christian army in the night. It
starts well but rapidly deteriorates as the low willpower party are all
stunned. Tulip takes a grievous wound that we bind with the special
bandages we just received on Kalbaf. We eventually win and chase off the
few survivors, loot the bodies. We get poor quality plate, the leather
armour and weapons as well as 103sp. Move camp and recover until
morning.

## Date: 04/03/803

Knights with a witch hunter emerge from Jerusalem in the morning and go
to the site of the fight, we pack quickly taking the only magical item
(a scimitar) and all the armour, the rest we abandon. The old man takes
the loot, the camels and Sabrina in through the gate. Uzi and Sebastian
climb over the wall, and Tulip doges in among the crowd "unseen". There
are wards on top of the wall, which Uzi and Sebastian set off (a loud
bell starts tolling). They escape "unseen". We regroup and hire a room
in an inn for a week. We are still weak from the fight and hang around
resting all the rest of the day.

## Date: 05/03/803

Go into the city, find somewhere to sell armour and get some sculpting
tools for Sebastian. We find a store, sell armour and get tools (stone
and fine) as well as a Damascus steel dagger and 30gp for the armour. He
needs time to get gold and so we need to wait for a couple of hours.
Sebastian is unable to sell any of his rings, the quality is not good
enough. While waiting we find a "Book" store, the old man inside seems
to know something about magic. DA gives him as a Namer and his highest
ranked skill as Philosophy, he is from this plane. The old man is able
to put us in contact with someone who can send us back to Alusia, but
requires we do a job for him first. He sells us a set of lock picks for
8gp. We are to come back tomorrow for the lock picks and to find out the
mission.

## Date: 06/03/803

Uzi takes one of Alyson's potions, it gives him the use of Wizards eye
for one month for only one point of fatigue. We return to the bookstore
and send the eye in first, some places it cannot go and in other places,
it seems to just give an image of what what "should" be there and not
what actually is there. Somehow, we are not too surprised about this! We
need to rescue the witch Genevieve from the Hospitilar knights, she is
in their stronghold of Kracde Chevalier. He shows us where it is on a
map. He also sells us a set of lock picks for 8gp. Sebastian spends the
afternoon remaking some of the leather armour into a suit of Hobbit
leather. That evening we go "unseen" and climb the wall (setting off the
ward) and when out of the low mana zone of the city cast shadow wings.
After 3 hours, we land and prepare for another set of shadow wings.
Sebastian backfires and has muscle spasms, we have to return to
Jerusalem. We find a door and bribe the guard to let us back in.

## Date: 07/03/803 - 08/03/803

We find an Oriental healer, Sebastian asks for a Strength of Stone from
Tulip who backfires and gets arthritis, the oriental healer, heals us
both. We rest for the rest of today and tomorrow to regain lost
endurance and fatigue. Pay for another week at the inn.

## Date: 09/03/803

We rest during the day and then at night exit through the gate. Cast
wings and fly 3hrs, recast wings and fly for 3hrs. We get a little lost
and land about 15miles from the fortress. Sebastian makes a very bad
landing. We sleep for the day.

## Date: 10/03/803

We approach the fortress and do standard recognisance, send eye in, and
then Sebastian goes in. Castle is warded (against unbelievers) all the
way around, but he finds a small break in the ward on the top of one of
the gate towers. Inside the keep is another tower. Sebastian manages to
get in and find the witch. He uses up 5 charges of Tulips wind walking
rings to get him and the witch out (He did almost die permanently). We
all return to camp, cast wings and fly back to the same spot we stopped
in on our way out. Rest for the rest of the night.

## Date: 11/03/803

Rest during the day. Witch will arrange for someone to help us get back
home, we must go to island of Cypress and wait. Wings back to Jerusalem,
in through the gate in wall.

## Date: 12/03/803 - 15/03/803

Sell the camels and get supplies. Fly to port and catch boat to Cypress.
On boat for a couple of days.

## Date: 15/03/803 - 29/03/803

Wait on Cypress for the witch or her representative.

## Date: 30/03/803

Witch arrives with Father Alfonzo who has some gifts for us and a
Magical Mace that returns us to Alusia. Sebastian chooses to stay. Some
discussion with Alyson for loss of Camels.

### Items

Tulip
:   Ring of mind magic related to domination. This gives the wielder an
    bonus of 10 to their Willpower for dominating others, however the
    wielder will penalty of 5 to their Willpower for saving against
    Domination themselves.

Uzi
:   Two bottles with potion that return him to his prime and extend his
    prime of life by 5 years.

Sebastian
:   Seal that disguises his aura. It can be used to duplicate another
    entity's aura (target gets magic resistance verses Namer Special).
    The copy is only good for six hours and cannot the aura strength of
    the wearer.

Start
:   22/02/803 WK.

Finish
:   30/03/803 WK.

Time
:   38 days.

Time Playing
:   18hrs.

## Experience

  ----------- -------
  Uzi         11100
  Sabastian   11100
  Tulip       10100
  ----------- -------

## Loot

  Looted items                      
  --------------------------------- ---------
  Magical scimitar (+%5BC, +1 DM)   1310 sp
  Money                             103 sp
  Items purchased                   
  Stone mason tools                 100 sp
  Fine tools                        400 sp
  Dagger (Rank 8 +2DM +3%BC)        100 sp
  Lock Picks                        96 sp
  Camels                            1600 sp
  Expenses                          
  Supplies (Port)                   2 sp
  Passage to Suez                   84 sp
  Inn in Suez                       24 sp
  Slave                             40 sp
  Merchant to Gaza                  21 sp
  Supplies (Gaza)                   2 sp
  Inn in Gaza                       160 sp
  Gate Bribes Gaza                  4 sp
  Healing                           24 sp
  Camels                            30 sp
  Items used up                     
  Special Grenado (Tulip)           1500 sp
  Wind Walking (Tulip)              1750 sp
  Healing Potion (Tulip)            1000 sp
  Healing Bandages(Tulip)           ???? sp
