---
title: Red Laughter
author: Callas
date: March 28, 2025
---

# Writeups

## Doom Pool

Black Archibald has a pool that contains Doom. Every time the DM
believes he has performed an act or decision that leads to the
utterance "Aye, they werre doomt!" in a dour Scots accent or that
points out the inexorable march toward some final destiny, they may
award him one or more Doom points at the end of each session of play.

### Spending Doom

Doom points may be spent to channel the dark inevitability of his
destiny, resist opposition, or for specific uses as listed below:

Doom-laden Blow (Free Act)
: As a Free Act, Archibald may spend one Doom to make his melee attack
harder to avoid. If he misses, then he gets another attack at half his
Initiative Value, if this misses, then he gets another attempt at half
that value, and so on until the value falls below ten. He may use
Doom-laden Blow before, during or immediately after his first attack.

Imposing Presence (Reaction)
: By spending five Doom, Archibald may impose an aura of inevitability
and dread upon enemies within his front hexes.  Effect: This effect
last until the end of the Pulse, but for the duration, those who are
affected add fifteen to the die roll results of their percentile
checks.

Doom-Fueled Strength (Free Act)
:  Archibald can spend Doom to enhance his prowess for his next
attack.  Spending Doom increases the damage of his next attack by
three. This must be declared before the attack roll.

Curse Avoidance (Free Action)
: By channeling Doom, Archibald may resist effects that attack his
destiny, so can improve his resistance to Curses at a rate of 5% per
point spent. In the event of a Death Curse, he may spend Doom to Break
100 + WP to successfully Resist.


### Doom Pool Mechanics

Restoration
: All Doom is fully restored after Purification at dawn but is lost at
midnight during the end-of-season festival.

## Certainty

Three points of Doom may be converted to one Certainty during
Purification. Certainty is a finite resource that persists beyond the
end-of-season festival but cannot be restored once spent.

### Spending Certainty

Certainty points represent Archibald’s absolute conviction and control
over the forces of inevitiblilty. They may be spent in the following
ways:

Supreme Resolve (Free Action)
: Certainty may be spent to completely negate the effects of Fear,
Terror, or Horror without the need for a roll.

Weaving Reality
: By spending Certainty, Archibald may alter events to align with his
goals (e.g., finding a hidden escape route, encountering an ally in
dire circumstances).

The cost of this depends on the significance of the effect, with minor
influences costing 1 Certainty and major narrative changes costing up
to 5. In addition, he adds that amount to all of his percentile die
rolls until he finds a way to remove this penalty.

## Coruscade - Stained Glass Plate

Range
: Self

Duration
: 30 minutes + 30 / Rank

Base Chance
: 10%

Resist
: None

Target
: Sentient Entity

Effects
: Planes of Stained Glass appear around the Adept in the form of plate
armour. Their Defence is increased by 2% (+ 3 per two full Ranks), and
if they are struck by a weapon that is not magical or silvered, 1
point per three full Ranks is subtracted from the damage.  This
applies to blows directly to EN or Specific Grievous inujuries, but
not the special damage of that injury. However, a Specific Grievous
injury will cause the armour to shatter, ending the incantation but
anyone adjacent to them must Resist vs Backfire or lose their next
Strike Action, as the armour splinters into a kaleidoscopic explosion
of colours.

Cost
: 750 Experience.

Constraints
: Unracks the spell.

## Slowness - Inertial Field

Range
: Self

Duration
: 30 minutes +  30 / Rank, or while distortions last

Base Chance
: 20%

Resist
: None

Target
: Sentient Entity

Effects
: One transparent, vaguely sperhical distortion in the air (+ 1 per
three Ranks) orbit the Adept for the duration of the spell. Whenever
the Adept would be struck by a FT blow by a physical wweapon in Melee
or at Range, then the damage is halved as the distortion absorbs part
of the impact.  This dooes not apply to blows directly to EN or
Specific Grievous injuries.

Cost
: 750 Experience.

Constraints
: Unracks the spell.

## Chasm Toad

Natural Habitat
: Abysmal pits, the Void

Frequency
:  Rare

Number
:  1 (256)

Description
: Chasm toads are found near the border of the Abyss and the Void.
They are said to be the consequence of a night hag mating with an
abysmal demon who fell into a chaos reactor at the onset of labour.
They stand somewhere between thirty and forty five centimetres tall,
and weigh between fourteen ounces and four pounds. They have dark
green, leathery skin covered in lighter coloured warts.

There is a theory that from time to time, an adult toad will “seethe”
and excrete a greenish slime. Some time later, they divide into a
swarm of chasm toadlets which is always an exponent of two in number.

Abilities
:  Chasm toads are enchanted creatures whose intelligence grows to be
near that of the entities it associates with. They are capable of
storing as much as one cubic foot of material by swallowing it, but
the maximum dimension is no more than half of its height. Dimensions
less that one foot are considered to be one foot for the purposes of
calculating storage capacity.

As they advance, some of these toads are able to manifest small
patches which are similar to the Deep Pockets spell, except that empty
ones may be thrown by the toad to capture something that will fit
inside, or that will inflict 1 D10! (+ 1 per Rank) on contact if it is
too big to fit. Targets are entitled to a Magic Resistance check
versus Dark Celestial Special Knowledge magic, taking half damage if
they succeed.

Movement Rates
: Hopping: 250, Climbing 150


-------  -------  -------  -------  --------  -------
PS       MD       AG       MA       EN        FT

4 - 6    20 - 26  8 - 12   12 - 16  12 - 18   10 - 18

WP       PC       PB       TMR      NA

10 - 25  10 - 20  0        5 / 3    Warts: 5
-------  -------  -------  -------  --------  -------


Weapons
: Bite BC 50% [D10! + 2], 3 hexes, RMC, Maximum Rank 6, advances as a
Lasso.

Note
: The toad can target something that is less than a quarter of its
mass with its tongue and draw it in to deliver a bite

Storage
: If the toad is fed something that it can digest, it will consume it.
This can include friends. If the toad is fed a poison, it will absorb
it and may deliver it with a bite. A record of toxins should be
kept. Anything stored in the toad (except poison) will experience one
tenth of the normal rate of time. It will be as if only one day was
experienced over the passage of ten.

## Hoardling

Hoardling is a chasm toad. He stands thirty centimetres tall, and
weighs fourteen ounces, but has hopes of acquiring greater mass. He
identifies as a toad and his pronouns are he, him, and occasionally
they/them. The maximum Rank he can know any language is six, which is
his current Rank in Thari.

He is convinced that on the occasion of his warts turning yellow, he
will experience a great “change” and advance to the next level of his
progression.

He would like to become a monk. Or a fireman.

-------  -------  -------  -------  --------  -------
PS       MD       AG       MA       EN        FT

4        21       12       16       18        13

WP       PC       PB       TMR      NA

16       10       0        5 / 3    Warts: 5
-------  -------  -------  -------  --------  -------


Weapons
: Bite BC 50% [D10! + 2], 3 hexes, RMC, Rank 0

Note
: Hoardling can target something that is less than three ounces with
his tongue and draw it in to deliver a bite

Storage
: If Hoardling is fed something that he can digest, he will consume
it.  This can include friends. If he is fed a poison, he will absorb
it and may deliver it with a bite. A record of such toxins should be
kept. Anything stored (except poison) will experience one tenth of the
normal rate of time. It will be as if only one day was experienced
over the passage of ten.

## Second Head of Abzazu

Range
: Self

Duration
: 10 minutes (+ 10 minutes per Rank)

Base Chance
: 30%
Cast Time
: 10 minutes

Effects
: This spell manifests as a second head that appears on the caster’s
shoulders, wearing a great helm and resembling an intimidating,
ancient visage. The second head provides a bonus of 10 (+1 per Rank)
to notice hidden details, subtle sounds, or movements. Black Archibald
may sing in intervals, improving their skill at Singing by three
Ranks.

If he is the victim of a blow to the head, then he has a 50% chance
that it has affected the Second Head, which will be destroyed by it,
and thus dissipate the spell. Only the Specific Grievous damage will
be voided by this means, the rest being applied to Archibald.

The second head also allows him to maintain concentration on one
additional effect.

## Talisman of Water

This small bracer is made from the amber hide of a giant seahorse and
a translucent blue gem about the size of a hen's egg. The stone has
whorls scratched into the surface and is poorly polished. It weighs
eight oz.

On the first day of each season, the wearer may store a number of
General Knowledge Water College spells into the gem which is equal to
their Rank in the General Knowledge Counterspell of the College of
Water Magic, and a record taken.

The Rank of the spells stored in the talisman are the same as their
Rank in the General Knowledge Counterspell of the College of Water
Magic.  It is also a [Spell Rack](https://dq-nz.org/dqwiki/index.php/).

## The Sandglass of Polycarpus

This small sandglass will measure the passage of three minutes in tiny
grains of jade whenever it is turned over.  It weighs thirteen oz and
is made from turned quartz and an extremely hard, marbled, dark blue
metal. It is unusually heavy.

The bearer may store Magical Pass Actions in the sandglass by reducing
their maximum FT value. This is done by Purifying with the sandglass
at dawn.

If one Magical Pass Action is to be stored, then the bearer's FT value
is reduced by one. If two Magical Pass Actions, then their FT value is
reduced by an additional two, if three, then an additional four.
Obviously, the amount FT value is reduced doubles for each Magical
Pass Action stored.

Only one Stored Magical Pass Action may be used in a Pulse, but it may
be combined with any other Action the bearer has available.

The bearer may begin to recover FT value as if recovering "tiredness"
FT once all of the Magical Pass Actions have been exhausted.
Subsequent Magical Pass Actions cannot be added to the sandglass until
it is empty.  It is also
a [Spell Rack](https://dq-nz.org/dqwiki/index.php/Spell_Rack).

## Figurine of the Diorite Mount

This rough-hewn stone figure is very nearly black with speckles of
almost luminescent white.  It appears to be a clumsy sculpture of a
horse, being ungainly and graceless. It will fit into the palm of a
large man, and weighs thirty one oz.

If a point of power is sacrificed to the figurine, then a mount may be
stored therein.  Once in any twenty four hour period, the mount may be
released from it. Storing or releasing the mount requires a Pass
Action.

## Callas' Arresting Gaze

Range
: 10 feet (+5 feet / Rank)

Duration
: Special

Experience Multiple
: 300

Base Chance
:  Automatic

Cast Time
: Magical Fire Action

Effects
: This magic does not normally miss, and neither can it generate
Double or Triple Effects. Callas has a gaze that she can fix on an
entity or an object that can fit inside a volume of one hex (+ one hex
for every ten Ranks). Objects or entities of greater size cannot
normally be affected.

The effects of the gaze are Avoided or Opposed, not Resisted, and if
this is done, then nothing happens to them. For a target that
succumbs, however, the current Pulse does not end for them. They do
not lose Actions directly, however, abilities that reset at the end of
the current Pulse or the beginning of the next will not be renewed as
the Future is warded away from them. Similarly, entities afflicted
with continuous damage like bleeding wounds, Greek Fire, poison, the
End of Pulse Stun Recovery check, etc. will no longer experience them
until She lifts her gaze, and provided she maintains the cost each
Pulse. She cannot maintain the effect on multiple targets since she
can only gaze at one thing at a time but she can lift it at any time
without using any kind of Action at all.

Her gaze is Avoided if the target Breaks 100 and adds AG to the
result, or WP if the effect is to be Opposed.  This halves the Stat
involved or reduces it by ten, whichever is the least, and lasts until
the end of the next Pulse.  This magic draws one from a special
reserve in her 'heart'.  This starts at five, and may be raised by one
at the end of an Adventure or Season, whichever is least, at a cost of
two thousand five hundred Experience. It recovers as if it were normal
FT, but only after all normal FT has been restored.

## Benediction of Land and Beast (R-B)

Range
: Sight

Duration
: 3 months for every Rank that is prime

Experience Multiple
: 125

Base Chance
: 45%

Resist
: None

Cast Time
: 1 hour

Target
: Area, Livestock, Entity

Effects
: The ritual increases the richness of the soil of 1 acre (+ 1 acre /
Rank).  For the duration of the magic everything grown in that soil
will be proof against locusts, droughts, flooding, frost, and other
natural disasters.

If the ritual is cast upon a pregnant entity, it will increase the
unborn child's EN value by one, raising it by three at Rank 10 and
finally raising it by six at Rank 20.

It can also be cast upon 5 (+ 1 / Rank) livestock that are within
sight. These animals will then be resistant to natural disorders, such
as rabies, dysentery, worms, and hoof and mouth disease for the
duration.

Finally, it can be cast to dissipate the effects of a Spell of
Blighting Crops or Spell of Pestilence.

## Weapon of Mettle (S-5)

Range
: 5 feet + 5 / Rank

Duration
: 5 minutes + 1 / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 250

Base Chance
: 30%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Investment

Target
: Object

Effects
: This spell is cast over a weapon of the Adept’s choice, increasing
its strike chance by Rank% (minimum of 1). If it is cast upon a weapon
that inflicts A Class damage, then it increases the Penetration of the
weapon by 1 for every two full Ranks.  Penetration does not increase
damage, instead, it reduces the target's Protection. If cast upon a
swinging weapon (hafted B or C Class weapons and military pick), it
strengthens the weapon so that bonuses for excess PS can be applied
without possibility of weapon breakage, unless PS exceeds 40.  If it
is cast upon a weapon that inflicts C Class damage, then it inflict 1
extra point of damage for every three or fraction Ranks.  At Rank 20,
an extra D10 C Class damage is added.  Beyond the enhancement to
Strike Chance, none of these bonuses apply to B Class swords.

## Farsensing (T-F)

Range
: 15 feet + 15 / Rank

Duration
: Active concentration

Experience Multiple
: 150

Target
: Controlled Animal

Effects
: The Adept can, by remaining stationary and actively concentrating
for the duration of the talent’s workings, see, hear, taste, smell and
feel the same things as their familiar, provided that their familiar
is within 15 feet (+ 15 feet / Rank) of their position.  This talent
allows no special communication with the familiar, merely the ability
to utilise their senses. The Adept must have already taken control of
the animalfor this talent to be effective.  It takes about 2 Pulses
(−1 / 5 full Ranks) for the Adept to tune in to the familiar’s senses.
If the familiar is killed while the Adept is using this talent, they
suffer magical backlash D10 + 10 damage due to shock. This damage can
Stun.

## The Speculon of Anak (S-SA)

Range
: 10 feet + 5 / Rank

Duration
: 10 minutes + 10 / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 175

Base Chance
: 30%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Investment, Ward

Target
: Volume

Nateruak Component
: A sapphire worth at least 100 gs.

Effects
: If the spell is successfully cast, it consumes a sapphire and causes
a volume of non-living solid material to become as transparent as high
quality glass unless that material is ferrous in any way.  Otherwise
the material will retain its original characteristics.  One (+ 1 /
Rank) adjacent 1 foot cubes may be affected, and any dimension less
than one foot counts as one foot. The Adept may cause the volume to be
transparent from only a single direction, by reducing the BC by 10.

## Converse with Plants (S-CP)

Range
: 10 feet + 10 / Rank

Duration
: 3 hours + 3 / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 50

Base Chance
: 25%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Potion

Target
: Self

Effects
: The Adept can communicate with flora with which they are
familiar. The mode and extent of communication is up to the GM’s
discretion.

## Converse With Animals (S-CA)

Range
: Self

Duration
: 1 hour + 3 / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 50

Base Chance
: 60%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Investment, Potion

Target
: Self

Effects
: The Adept may communicate with any natural and unenchanted, animal,
bird, or aquatic.  Whether this communication is verbal or symbolic,
and to what extent the communication may be carried is left up to the
GM’s discretion.  The Adept must specify at the time of casting what
particular type of animal, bird or aquatic is to be conversed with.
The spell must be re-cast to speak to another type of animal, bird, or
aquatic.

## Binding Earth (R-BE)

Duration
: 2 hours + 2 / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 500

Base Chance
: INT + 3 / Rank

Cast Time
: 30 minutes

Effects
: The Adept may bind 500 pounds of earth, rocks or stone (+ 500 /
Rank).  They may do anything with it except form an earth elemental.
It may not be used on an individual rock or stone greater than Rank
allows.  This ritual may not be used over an area occupied by an
elemental and cannot be used in any way to control an elemental.
Bound earth, rock or stone blocks all earth shaping effects, for
example, Hands of Earth, Earth Elementals, Tunnelling.

## Ride the Wind (T-RW)

Experience Multiple
: 1

Cast Time
: Pass Action

Effects
: Corniger may Ride the Wind at his TMR (+ or − 1 for every four full
Ranks).  If he does not maintain his TMR, he falls.  At heights
greater than thirteen metres above the ground, he may call a wind that
will increase his movement rate to twenty miles per hour (+1 mile per
hour per Rank). His rate of climb is one hex up for every two
horizontal.

## Teal Broadleaf Parsley (Uncommon herb)

Any attempt to take cuttings or seedlings of this herrb will fail
unless performed by a Rank 2+ Herbalist.  The leaves of this perennial
herb shine faintly blue if they have never been exposed to direct
sunlight.  It is difficult to grow and requires a place of deep shade.
It needs regular composting and watering, and soil with good drainage.
In terms of maintenance, the plant requires 180 hours of care a
season, divided by the Herbalist's Rank.  The least amount of time
that must be spent cultivating ut is 4 hours.  If this maintenance
time is not met or exceeded, the plant will wither and die.

## Teal Tincture of Parsley

To make an effective tincture from this herb, seven leaves must be cut
from the plant with a silver blade.  This must be done under moonlight
of a Monday evening, the leaves macerated in a white marble mortar
with a granite pestle.  Into the mortar, a cup of shadow wine must be
poured, and the macerate allowed to steep until the next moonrise.

The macerate must be poured into a copper pan and heated but not
boiled.  The fumes should be collected will form a teal distillate if
successful. This is sufficient for one dose. An Herbalist can create
one dose for every three Ranks, provided they have sufficient leaves
and other materiel.

Taking one dose of this tincture in a tisane of sage and honey once a
day for thirteen days has a 40% (+3 per Rank) chance to relieve the
patient of stones in the kidney or gall bladder.

## Woundheal Burdock (Uncommon herb)

This wide, spongy leaf can be applied to a wound, and will staunch one
point of bleeding.

Any attempt to take cuttings or seedlings of this herrb will fail
unless performed by a Rank 2+ Herbalist.  It grows easily and without
care so long as it is sufficiently watered.  In terms of maintenance,
the plant requires 80 hours of care a season, divided by the
Herbalist's Rank.  The least amount of time that must be spent
cultivating ut is 4 hours.  If this maintenance time is not met or
exceeded, the plant will wither and die.

A medicated bandage may be made from woundheal by tearing free three
leaves from a plant, and grinding them in a white marble mortar with a
limestone pestle.  Pour on a cup of apple brandy and steep for three
nights.  Pour the macerate into seven layerered sheets of common
cobwebs.  Wrap in a parchment spill and seal with wax.

When the seal is broken and the bandage applied to a wound, a D10 is
rolled and 1 added to the result for every three Ranks in Herbalist.
However, it is important to note that the bandage can only restore
damage inflicted by the wound it is applied to.  If the bandage
generates seven points of healing but the wound only inflicted five,
then only five will be restored.

## Summerbright Calendula (Rare herb)

This flower has bright yellow petals like spear heads and an orange
centre.

Any attempt to take cuttings or seedlings of this herb will fail
unless performed by a Rank 6+ Herbalist.  The scent and petals of this
of this perennial flower attract and support bees so that they remain
active all the year round.  It will only prosper in a high mana zone
that has a sunny prospect.  It requires 240 hours of care a season,
divided by the Herbalist's Rank.  The least amount of time that must
be spent cultivating it is 8 hours.  If this maintenance time is not
met or exceeded, the plant will wither and die.

## Bitterleaf Aloes (Unommon herb)

Any attempt to take cuttings or seedlings of this plant will fail
unless performed by a Rank 2+ Herbalist.  The leaves of this plant are
green, long, succulent and edged with thorns.  It is a robust plant
but requires a sunny prospect and well-drained soil.  It needs very
little maintenance but is aloof and will not abide crowding where more
than three other plants are within a megahex of it.  In terms of
maintenance, the plant requires 60 hours of care a season, divided by
the Herbalist's Rank.  The least amount of time that must be spent
cultivating it is 2 hours.  If this maintenance time is not met or
exceeded, the plant will wither but takes about two years of neglect
to die.  A single leaf is good for as much as five preparations,
however, although robust, the plant regenerates slowly.  No more than
two leaves should be harvested from a plant a year.

The latex of the fleshy leaf is yellow and bitter, edible but
unappealing.  Eating it regularly, however, is said to provide
protection againts fits, agues, convulsions and seizures.


## Bitter Condiment of Aloes

Take the latex of a single leaf, skin it and separate the aloe.
Gently heat it for three hours after the sun has reached its zenith.
Repeat this each day until it has been reduced to a rough brown
powder.  If the sun is feeble or the day inclement, this may take more
time, and if it has not been reduced by Thursday, then the attempt has
failed and must be restarted with new materia (success rate is usually
30%/day but varies depending on climate).

Mill the powder in a basalt mortar with a granite pestle and pour into
bottles as long as the middle finger of a seamstress and seal with
beeswax. This will hold seven doses.  The condiment will last
indefinitely and each leaf will produce five doses (+1 for every two
Ranks in Herbalist).

The condiment is applied to any food that is not a dessert.  If it is
eaten once a day for three consecutive days, then it provides a bonus
equal to two times the Herbalist's Rank to Resist fits, agues,
convulsions and seizures, including those caused by illness, backfire,
poison, spell or curse.  This includes things like Harming Entity,
Rigor Mortis, Agony, Torment, Hand of Death, Rune Curse (where
appropriate), Periodic Muscle Spasms, Migraines.  In addition, if the
affliction removes Actions, then, instead, their success chance is
halved.

After eating food dressed with the condiment once, then they must
Break 100 + WP × three to force themselves to eat it again, with the
factor reducing by one each subsequent day, failure indicating they
are unwilling to continue.  Any attempt to control, compel, bind or
otherwise force them to eat it will void the condiment's special
magic, although either Hypnotism or Illusion of Food, but not both,
will provide a bonus equal to Rank to the attempt to Break 100.  Once
the attempt has failed or dosages are exhausted, the effect wears off
and the process must start again.

## Draught of Clarity


>Read the sky at twilight's hue,  
>Only mix petals of the golden flower.  
>The leaves must glisten with morning dew,  
>First add a sprig of moonlit power.

>Word your spell as the draught is stirred,  
>To give it strength, chant thrice the name.  
>Find the roots of the whispering bird,  
>The elixir burns with a cooling flame.

>Truth.

>The brew will clear a muddled mind,  
>Twisted dreams it will untie.  
>Sister wisdom will you find,  
>Of truths unveiled beneath the sky.


Gather petals of chamomile in the hour after dawn and mugwort leaves
when the full moon is high. Take root of valerian on a Thursday at
noon.

Enough petals to fill a child's hand added to a cup of freshly boiled
water, then add seven of the mugwort leaves. As these steep, crush the
root and burn to ash. Add three thimbles of the ash to the cup once it
is cold.

Stir while focusing on what confounds you and ask your question three
times while stirring the mixture.

Strain through a linen sieve and drink while Purifying.

Success chance: Rank in Purification + two times Rank in Herbalism.

If the DM rolls beneath the success chance, the Herbalist makes use of
information they have already gathered and meditated upon to draw
accurate inferences. If the roll is greater than the success chance,
no inferences are drawn.

## Draught of Vengeance Toxin

Take thirteen petals from black hellebore that the Sun has never seen
and eleven leaves of stinging nettle. Thirty seven seeds from the head
of a single snake root.

Fill a tankard with boiling water and steep the leaves and seeds until
it becomes yellow. Make a sieve from the petals with a cobweb and
strain the contents of the tankard through it into a ceramic phial
coloured green. The draught will last until the end of the next dark
of the moon.

Once it is drunk, its effects last for Rank minutes or for Herbalist
Rank Vengeance attacks.

Each attempt to make a dose of this toxin costs three truesilver
guineas.

The toxin’s damage is calculated as: D10 – 7 + 1 per Herbalist Rank
(minimum 1 damage), so a Rank 6 Herbalist’s toxin would deal D10 – 1
(minimum 1) poison damage per attack received.

If three opponents deliver melee attacks and one other delivers a dual
attack, then but only two are successful, then the toxin is resolved
against those two. This counts as a single Vengeance attack.

The Vengeance toxin inflicts D10 - 7 + 1 per Herbalist Rank. A Rank 6
Vengeance toxin would inflict (D10 - 1) poison damage, minimum 1.


>Read the sky at twilight's hue,  
>Only mix petals of the golden flower.  
>The leaves must glisten with morning dew,  
>First add a sprig of moonlit power.

>Word your spell as the draught is stirred,  
>To give it strength, chant thrice the name.  
>Find the roots of the whispering bird,  
>The elixir burns with a cooling flame.

>Truth.

>The brew will clear a muddled mind,  
>Twisted dreams it will gently untie.  
>Sister wisdom it lets you find,  
>Of truths unveiled beneath the sky.

>Arachne spoke of shadows where  
>Lies dark petals in hidden glade.  
>In boiling water, buds will air,  
>Wait till colours start to fade.

>Beyond the forest, nettle’s sting,  
>And dry it sere beneath the sun.  
>The adder’s hiss the mix will bring,  
>Golden figments show it’s done.

>Serpent lore the brew will hide,  
>Attends the mind with steady glow.  
>It sharpens sight as thoughts collide,  
>On meadows where the shadows grow.

>The leaves of crimson ash begin,  
>Shores of oceans touched by wine  
>Of civet musk and coloured sin,  
>The brew must boil with slivered vine.

>White her arms and long her reach,  
>Sea for salt, and river's border  
>Beware the lesson that flames teach  
>Its turning dance of broken order

>Burning bright as dragon’s heart.  
>Eyes will see where shadows roll,  
>And fires within must soon depart.  
>Breath of oak to spare the soul

>Of grief, sorrow and searing pain  
>Flame can bring to mortal coil  
>For ever be its fearful rain  
>He calls its name to fall from high

>Knoweth the reaper in the green  
>The worker in the brush  
>Lay in furze its fruit to glean  
>Of bounty rich and lush

>Your toil returns a harvest rich  
>Mind and body twinned,  
>And quiet, whispered pitch  
>Can set dreams upon the wind.

>Bend the will of the ebbing tide,  
>It shapes the shore with quiet hand.  
>By moon's pale light, the stars confide,  
>His crafted patterns on the sand

>Song of the wood where harts are flayed,  
>He walks unseen on unreal road,  
>Is he a ghost or restless shade  
>Hiding the debt that nature's owed

>In bitter heaths where sorrows sleep,  
>The cavern's throat rings out the knell.  
>Memories linger, cold and deep,  
>Of secrets lost where shadows dwell.

>The song that whispers through the trees,  
>People lose the fire’s glow.  
>That chill which haunts the warmest breeze,  
>Live hearts yet beating, ebb and slow.

>There lies a path through shadowed glen,  
>And whispers guide the steps we take.  
>Can courage rise within us then?  
>Be strong, though wills may bend or break.

>Called from the Void to breach the shore,  
>Forth he strides when spiders call,  
>By darkling paths and oaths of yore,  
>His fate entwined with threads of gall,  
>Name whispered soft, yet feared by all.

- Draught of Crimson Fortitude
- Elixir of Ocean's Grasp
- Potion of Dragon’s Sight
- Tonic of Sorrow’s Balm
- Harvest Draught
- Draught of Tidal Harmony
- Draught of the Phantom Shade
- Draught of the Shadowed Glen

## Hart/Hind (S-H/H)

Range
: Self

Duration
: 1 hour + 30 minutes / Rank

Experience Multiple
: 200

Base Chance
: 30%

Resist
: None

Storage
: Potion, Ward

Target
: Self

Effects
: The Adept may transform themselves into a Hart or Hind, depending on
gender, which is not fully manifest in the real world.  While in this
spectral form, they have, instead, a combined FT and EN value of 20 (+
5 per 3 Ranks, 60 at Rank 20).  Once this value is exhausted, duration
expires or they take a Pass Action to end the spell, they resume their
original form.  Damage inflicted to the spectral form does not roll
over to their personal FT and/or EN unless this would be sufficient to
kill them outright (i.e. combined FT & EN of the spectral form +
remaining FT + (1.5 × remaining EN)).

If they are under the effects of a Walking Unseen spell, then they may
not be clearly identified or directly magically targeted by sight
unless the Rank of Enhanced Vision, Witchsight or similar magic is
equal or higher.

While in this form, they can run overland at their TMR (+1 per 5
Ranks) and, over the course of a minute, enter a spectral trail where
their movement rate is 30 miles per hour (+1 mile per hour per Rank).

## Dominican Chainmail

This mail shirt covers a humanoid of size 6 from the shoulders to the
knees, and must be belted.  It weighs 42 lbs, reduces AG by 2, Stealth
by 15 and improves Magic Resistance by 15.  It provides Protection of
10, EN Armour of 1 and 3 points of Spell Armour.  However, the wearer
adds 15 to the result of any Cast Check, and any roll of "00" is
always a backfire, regardless of Cast Chance.

Once a day, and at a cost of 10 FT, the wearer may double their base
PS for three consecutive Pulses. Magical enhancements to PS stack but
are not doubled.


## Tabard of the Hounds of God

This white linen tabard has a black hound, rampant, breathing flames,
embroidered into it with thread spun from the sinews of a night gaunt.
It will fit any human, elf or orc, weighs four pounds and may be worn
over chain or plate armour.  Wearing this tabard penalises FT recovery
by one.  For example, if the wearer would normally recover three FT
from tea, then they recover two.  If the wearer avoids this cost on
three consecutive occasions, the embroidery rots and the magic is
lost.

The wearer takes one less damage from magic that drains life, and
their Defence is improved by seven.  In addition, they may increase
their half move TMR by one.  For example, if their TMR is five, then
their half move TMR would normally be three, but wearing the tabard
would make it four.


## The Discord Serpent

This is the Individual True Name of a unique entity, Zmey
Gorynych. There are only 21 Ranks available. In other words, every
Rank this Name is raised reduces someone else's Rank by the same
amount amount.

If the Spell of Name Change is known, and their Rank in the Generic
True Name 'Snake' is Ranked to 10 or higher, then they may assume a
dracoform with green and black scales whose properties are described
below. They may also assume the form of a green and black serpent as
long in feet as their Rank in the spell. The serpent will weigh
(length + (length × length))/2 in lbs.

It can fit through a gap which is no narrower than 1 inch (+1 inch for
every three feet of length).

PS           MD    AG   MA       EN
---          ---   ---  ---      ---
2 + length   -     22   Adept's  2 + length

FT           WP         PB    TMR            NA
---          ---        ---   ---            ---
Adept's WP   Adept's    10    3 + length/4   3

Weapons
: The serpent can bite in Close or Melee Combat

BC
: 61%,1 roll-up D10 + (length/3), A Class damage

The Bite is Ranked as a Short Sword

The damage the bite inflicts depends on the length of the serpent. If
the serpent is less than ten feet long, the damage dice only reflects
how much armour is defeated. If this is insufficient to penetrate
armour, then no venom is delivered. If the length is 10 feet or
greater, then the bite inflicts standard A class damage.

Venom from the bite is equal to 1 for every four Ranks in the Generic
True Name and each application lasts for D10 Pulses.

Every 4 Ranks in this Generic True Name 'Snake' increases PS, AG, EN
and PB by 1

The shade of the scales may be subtly altered to improve Stealth by
the Rank of the Generic True Name while in a natural terrain that is
not arctic.

The serpent has Racial Magic that lets it:

- see heat sources as faint as a mammal up to 25 feet distant even in
  complete darkness allows it to hold its breath for a number of
  minutes equal to its EN.
- meet the gaze of an entity that is half its weight or less and
  immobilise, unless the victim takes a Pass Action
- The serpent has a land TMR of 3 (+length/3), a swimming TMR of 4, a
  climbing TMR of 2, and a land movement rate of 50 yards per minute
  per five feet of length.

A battleform may also be assumed where the Adept assumes the shape of
a humanoid drake whose body is as long as their humanoid height and a
muscular tail half as long again. Their armour merges with their green
and black scales, but their other equipment is disposed around their
body as usual. When the Individual True Name is Rank 10 or higher,
membranous wings appear on the battleform's back and allow a limited
form of flight.

Changing between the serpent shape and the battleform requires a Pass Action. 

It provides 1 point of Damage Reduction (+1 for every 10 Ranks in the
Individual True Name) against all known forms of damage.

Every 4 Ranks in this Individual True Name increases PS, MD, AG, EN
and NA by 1.

Every 4 Ranks in this Generic True Name 'Snake' increases PS, AG, EN
and PB by 1.

PS           MD    AG   MA       EN
---          ---   ---  ---      ---
23           14    17   Adept's  26

FT           WP        PC       PB    TMR      NA
---          ---       ---      ---   ---      ---
Adept's      Adept's   Adept's  11    Special  Special

The battleform has three heads, although only one can be manifested at
a time, and changing heads requires a Pass Action. At Rank 20 in the
Individual True Name, changing heads requires a Free Act.

Agon is not very smart but can breathe fire in a cone that is Rank of
the Individual True Name long in hexes and half that at the base.  It
inflicts 1 rollup D10 + Rank in the Individual True Name to everything
in the volume. Magic Resistance is not usually allowed against this
unless the victim is on the edge of the volume. Once used, Agon's
breath weapon recovers when a six on a die is rolled.

Spokononyy is not very brave but can transfix a victim by gazing
unless they succeed in a Break 100 roll adding 2 × their WP to the
result. If they fail, they may only take Pass Actions to remove the
transfixation. For every five Ranks in the Individual True Name, the
victim must make an extra Pass Action. Once used, Spokononyy's gaze
weapon recovers when an eight on a die is rolled.

Kusat is not very polite but has a bite that inflicts twice as much
damage as the other heads and can attack a target up to 10 feet
distant.

The Adept's player may check each Pulse to determine if a head's
weapon has recovered.

If the Discord Serpent is decapitated, then they have two chances in
three of manifesting another head, and if decapitated again, then one
chance in three.

Weapons
: Heads can bite in Close or Melee Combat

- Bite    BC: 71%, 1 roll-up D10 (+Individual True Name / 4), B Class damage, MC, Ranks as a  claymore
- Claw    BC:    57%, 1 roll-up D10 + 1 (+ Individual True Name/10), A Class damage, MC, Ranks as a dagger
- Tail    BC:    47%, 2 roll-up D10 (+Individual True Name / 4), C Class damage, M, Ranks as a whip. 

The Adept can deliver a claw/claw/bite routine or if other weapons are used, only a bite can be delivered.

The tail can make one attack into a rear hex of the Adept but does not count against their others since it is a Reflex Action. 

The wings have the following flight properties

- flying requires a clear space around the Adept of about a megahex.
- the Adept must spend 1 FT at the beginning of every Pulse that they intend to fly.
- the Adept must maintain an airspeed equivalent to TMR 7 (-1 for every three Ranks in the individual True Name) to avoid stalling and beginning to fall.
- maximum rate of climb is an angle of 45°, and each Pulse climbing like this costs an additional point of FT. Climbing at a rate of 1 hex per 2 horizontal hexes does not cost additional FT.

In addition, wings may be used to batter opponents up to 10 feet
distant or Melee Combat

BC
: 53%, 1 roll-up D10 + 2 (+ Individual True Name / 10), C Class
damage. ME, Ranks as a quarterstaff. Two wing attacks may be made
without penalty unless the Adept is using other weapons, in which case
only one wing attack is allowed.

## Incantation of Ley Line Traversal

Spell
: Earth Door + Earth Elemental

Range
: Rank × Rank × 10 miles

Duration:
Conc. 10 mins + 10 mins / Rank

Resist
: None

Target
: Earth Elemental

Effects
: This incantation of the Earth Door spell allows the Adept and 1
  person (+1 per 2 Ranks) to travel with them. An Earth Elemental is
  summoned, Controlled, and then when the Earth Door is Cast,
  instructed to keep it open, extending it back to a point the Adept
  can see or has committed to their Ley Memory. They will will travel
  to this destination through the Elemental Plane of Earth. From their
  perspective, they will be traveling at a walking pace, but in
  reality their movement rate will be up to Rank miles per minute.

Adding a location to the Adept's Ley Memory costs 1 PC, takes around
four hours, and can be bought back in the usual way.

Cost
: 3,000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 4. 

## Incantation of Spell Magazine

Spell
: Smoking Magma

Range
: 25 feet + 5 / Rank

Duration
: Special

Base Chance
: 7%

Resist
: Passive

Target
: Object/Entity

Effects
: This incantation of Smoking Magma gains a number of Prepare Actions
  equal to 1 (+1 for every three Ranks) so that they may Cast a Magma
  Bolt, which will fly from their hand to hit an object or entity.
  Since the Prepare Actions have already been stored into the Spell
  Magazine, the Adept simply makes a Cast Action to Fire a Magma Bolt
  which inflicts 1 roll-up D10 + Rank fire damage, Resist for
  half.  The FT cost is paid for each bolt, however.

The magazine lasts for 10 seconds (+10 seconds per Rank) or until all
Cast Actions have been used.

Cost
: 3000

Constraints
: Unracks the spell, reduces FT value by 3.

##  Spell Matrix

A Spell Matrix takes 7 half days of magical training to create.  They
must also expend Experience to create each of them.  The base cost for
a spell matrix is 1000 Experience divided by (the Adept's MA - 15).
If the Adept has less than 16 MA, they cannot create spell matrices.
The cost doubles for each new matrix bought.  There is no upper limit,
the Adept can keep buying matrices so long as they are willing to
spend the Experience.

Incantations of a spell must be racked before they can be cast by the
Adept. To rack a spell, the Adept must ritually cast it with its
particular incantation. If the spell cannot be ritually cast, it
cannot be racked

## Voidsilk Robe × 2

This robe is made from voidsilk, and is the colour of migraines. It
will conform in fit to anyone of size 6 or less.  The wearer must
sacrifice a point of EN to bind the robes to them.  Once bound, it has
the following properties:

- +1 WP
- 6 points of Protection and 8 points of Spell Armour which will stack
  with Natural Armour or that made from plant or animal fibres but not
  leather, wooden, ceramic or metal armour.
- Reduces damage by 1 point except versus Disruption, Putrid Wound,
  Necrosis, Torment, venom or similar.
- If the wearer is the target of a Defence spell, it increases that
  Defence by another 7
- The calculation for bonus to Magical Aptitude from Purification
  becomes 1 per four Ranks not 1 per five and 1 extra Magic Resistance
  for every four Ranks.
- The wearer may buy a point of spell casting FT for the robe at a
  cost of 1,999 Experience, which may be used (only) for the casting
  of spells or rituals. The maximum FT that can be stored is 10, and
  only one such point may be bought per season or adventure, whichever
  is least.
- If the robes are damaged, 1 point of Protection is restored at a
  cost of 3 EN which can only be recovered by Natural Healing.

## Mindflayer Belt × 2

This belt weighs 5 lbs and is made from five 5 inch by 2 inch sections
of a pale blue cairngorms, joined by dark green opaque links, made of
jade.  It may be draped over a shoulder by threading through a sturdy
epaulette, or worn around the neck like a stole and strapped into
position on armour, but must be securely attached.  It is as tough as
steel and as flexible as willow.

If the wearer spends 1 FT, this belt reduces their weight down to
1/3rd, 90 lbs becomes 30 lbs, etc, and Encumbrance will have to be
recalculated.  This effect lasts for 10 minutes, and can be renewed as
long as the wearer pays the FT cost.

## Storage Crystal x 2

This crystal is transparent and a pale yellow in colour.  It is a
regular duodecimal solid that is 12 cms across and weighs 1 lb.  It
can be used to store power or spell casting FT at a rate of 1 point
per 10 minutes of focused concentration during which no other activity
can be undertaken.

The crystal, currently, has a value of 0, being empty. To increase its
storage capacity to 1, the user must spend as many days as the next
prime value and the same value in thousands of Experience.  Thus, the
user must spend two days two thousand Experience to raise it from 0
to 1.  To increase capacity from 1 to 2, they must spend (3-2=1) one
day and one thousand Experience.

The storage capacity of the crystal cannot be raised beyond 10, and
the user spends 2 of their FT to store 1 in the crystal, which takes 1
hour. These need not be consecutive.

These points can only be used for paying the FT cost of Spells or Rituals. 

## Crystal Wand of Linking Sense

This crystal wand is 31 cms long, tapering to a five faced point at
the tip, and weighs eleven ounces.  Charges: 1

The wielder adds their MA Bonus and Enchantment to the Cast Chance. If
their WP is greater than the target, they further increase the Cast
Chance by the difference. If it is lower, then the Cast Chance is
penalised by twice the difference.

Cast Chance
: 38%

Range
: 105 feet

Duration
: Conc. Max. 70 minutes

Resistance
: Active & Passive

Target
: Living entity

Effects
: The Adept may Trigger this effect by pointing the wand at a target
  within range that they can see and requires but a Fire Action. If
  the target fails to Resist, the Adept may see through the target's
  eyes until the spell ends.

While it is in effect, they may not apply their Agility to their
Defence, nor may they see through their own eyes.

## Crystal Wand of Mental Restoration

This crystal wand is 31 cms long, tapering to a three faced point at
the tip, and weighs eleven ounces.

Charges
: 8    7    6    5    4    3    2    1

The wielder adds their MA Bonus and Enchantment to the Cast Chance. If
their WP is greater than the target, they further increase the Cast
Chance by the difference. If it is lower, then the Cast Chance is
penalised by twice the difference.

Cast Chance
: 38%

Range
: Touch

Duration
: Immediate, during Pulse

Resistance
: None

Target
: Entity

Effects
: The Adept may Trigger this effect by touching their patient with the
  wand and requires but a Fire Action. The Adept may restore a mental
  stat (MA, WP, PC or FT) by one for every prime value of FT spent,
  thus:

FT spent    Amount restored
--------    ------------------------
    2                1
    3                2
    5                3
    7                4
   11                5
   13                6
   17                7 

and so on. 

## Stone of Resilience

This dull, faceted stone is grey and opaque, and weighs one lb. 

Charges
: 3    2    1

The stone must be carried on the Adept's body, and if it is not then
the magic ends.

It takes three Pass Actions to trigger the stone, after which the
fibres of the Adept's body knit together more elastically for ten
minutes.  While the effect is in place, the Adept Reduces Damage that
crushes by 2.

## Dream Antivenin Amulet

This small, engraved amulet of white jade must be worn over the heart
and next to the skin, so will not be obvious unless the wearer wishes
it. When it is obvious, the wearer's PB increases by 1 to their racial
maximum and reduces the die roll result of any Courtier/Courtesan
Skill Check by 7.

It holds three charges
: 3    2    1

If the wearer is subjected to a mental venom, then a charge is drawn
off and they are given a second chance to avoid the effects. If there
is no chance to avoid the venom, then a charge is drawn off to provide
one.

As the charges are used, the amulet changes to colour from white, to
pale green, to dark green and finally to blue.

## Willhammer

This weapon is a cumulative warhammer and military pick, each of which
has a maximum Rank of 5.  It is a one handed weapon, weighs four
pounds, requires PS 15 and MD 13 to wield.  It has a base Strike
Chance of 67%, may be wielded at Range or in Melee, inflicts D10 + 7 A
or C Class damage and has a range of six hexes.  This means that a
roll in the range of either an A or C Class Specific Grievous injury
is legal, but FT damage is assumed to be A Class unless C Class damage
is specified by the wielder.  The maximum bonus from PS is +4.

If the result on the damage die is a prime, then the cumulative Ranks
of this weapon are divided by 4 and the result truncated, their WP
divided by 5 and the result truncated then both are added to the prime
as damage. If it would inflict EN damage, it is, instead, applied to
WP.  This is in addition to the other damage this weapon inflicts.

## Arc Rod

This weapon is a gnarled rod of bark-covered blackthorn about a metre
long. It weighs 11 lbs, even though, by appearance, it would only
weigh 2. Nevertheless, it will still float in water.

It may be wielded as a mace, requiring PS 23 + MD 18 to wield, and has
a base Strike chance of 61%. At a cost of 3 lbs of weight, it will
inflict charged particle damage to a ranged or melee opponent. Targets
take damage depending on their armour, 4D10 if caparisoned in metal,
2D10 otherwise, but bonuses from PS are not applied. If any damage die
generates a 10, then the wielder makes a Strike Check against a target
within 5 feet, preferring those caparisoned in metal (excluding the
wielder), who also take damage accordingly. This process continues
until no tens are generated. No target may receive this attack more
than once per strike.

The rod will recover 3 lbs of weight if it is Purified with and
presented to the sky at dawn on a Thursday.

## Ghost Shield

This large round shield weighs 6 lbs, provides 5 Def per Rank to a
maximum of 25 and penalises MD by 2. For every Rank in excess of 4, it
redirects effects that drain life into a Thirst Pool. The maximum
capacity of the Thirst Pool is 20, and if this is exceeded, all of it
is applied to the wielder, catastrophically.

## Brain Serum x 2

This brass ball is four centimetres across with a screw on cap, and
weighs four ounces. It contains a grey, soupy liquid which, when
taken, cures any injury to the mind or brain, except those that
require complete regeneration taking five minutes.

## Eye Serum

This brass ball is four centimetres across with a screw on cap, and
weighs four ounces. It contains a greenish, soupy liquid which, when
poured into the eye sockets of a single entity, cure blindness from
any cause except those that require complete regeneration taking five
minutes.

## Revification Injection

This hypodermic syrinx is made from surgical brass. It weighs fifteen
oz, the ampoule being twelve cms long by three cms across, with the
syrinx an extra ten cms long. The aperture of the syrinx is five mm
across and is in the shape of a cuboid cylinder with rounded
vertices. Instead of a plunger, a brass gear and crank mechanism is
attached. Some people believe they hear woeful moaning coming from it.

The action of delivery is to drive the syrinx into the breast of the
dead entity, and then to turn the handle, crushing the contents and
forcing them into the target's heart, which will bring them back to
life. The injection must be administered within 24 hours after death
or it does not function at all. Further, for each hour that elapses
after death(minimum one), the patient suffers 1 point of drain from
each Primary Characteristic and Fatigue. This loss can only be
restored by Natural Recovery (one point every three days of rest).

Further, the injection does not heal wounds, neutralize poisons, or
cure diseases, so if proper healing is not administered immediately
(or beforehand), the patient may simply die upon being revivified.

The subject need not be willing and does not normally get any
opportunity to Resist.

## Verminbane Grenado

This grenado weighs 2 lbs, and is made of shards of glass held at the
very moment of fracture.  When it is smashed, three shifting,
discordant tones emanate from it, inflicting 2 rollup D5 non-magical
sonic damage directly to EN over a hemisphere 30 feet across (200
cu. metres or 7,000 cu. ft.).  Prot is not applied, although Damage
Reduction vs Sonics applies.  For every 3 damage taken, a victim
attracts a "disorientation point", requiring a Pass Action to remove,
and no other Action can be taken until they are all gone.

In an enclosed space, the damage increases to 4 rollup D5.

## Antivenin Slime

This test tube weighs 5 oz, and is sealed with a plug of infused
beeswax. It contains a slime that, when swallowed, will spread
throughout the subject's system and remove any synthetic poison that
is less than Rank 5. If the synthetic poison Rank is higher than 4,
then the subject Breaks 100 + EN and if that result is higher than
100 + Rank, then they have successfully thrown the slime, and the
poison, up. While this will take at least thirty seconds, if
successful, no further damage is done.

##  Gossamer of Stolen Dreams

This silken chiffon, spun from the nervous system of a thought eater
and the tendons of thirteen nightgaunts is teal green and can be made
into a diaphonouus shoulder cape or shawl. It weighs eleven ounces and
has no special properties if it is worn over plate, chain, scale mail
or any kind of metalic armour. And it would look odd in a bad way.

If it is worn over soft leather armour or similar, it extends somewhat
into the Astral, and so will provide five more points of Protection
(to a maximum of thirteen), eight points of Spell Armour, and one
point of Damage Reduction, which applies to everything except the
special damage of Specific Grievous injuries and poisons.

In addition, the wearer can feel through the the shawl, so it provides
one point of Defence for every three points of Agility. However,
although it protects against damage, it is entirely transparent to
pain. If they receive a blow that inflicts ten points of damage, then
they will take five fewer points because of the shawl, but they may be
Stunned if the full amount is greater than one third of their modified
EN value.

For the purposes of determining how long it will take to repair, the
shawl has ten EN which it recovers at a rate of one point every three
days. If an attempt is made to heal it, this will destroy the
nightgaunt tendons, freeing the thought eater, which will be very
hungry.

It will require the arts of a Rank 4 Seamstress or Tailor to make the
shawl, and they will charge 50 truesilver guineas for their work.

## The Two-Faced Blade

This broadsword has a long, slightly curved blade, etched on either side with glyphs:

מעמקי קברים ונוגה נר
and
אני חורט מסכת מוות מר

It is made from infernal gravesteel, is always darker than the
surrounding light level and it weighs nine pounds.

At the centre of the quillons, a funeral mask is carved onto a bronze
disk, its expression varying on examination from despair to glee. The
pommel stone is a cairngorm the size of a hen's egg, which glows
sombrely.

A PS of 27 and MD of 15 is required to wield this weapon. The base
Strike Chance is 67% and it inflicts 2 D10! + 11 B Class damage. Twos
rolled on the damage dice are read as sevens. The only weapon spell it
accepts is Spectral Weapon and it does not provide bonuses for damage
because of excess PS. It does provide damage bonuses for every four
Ranks in Broadsword, only.

If the inscriptions are deciphered, then more of its functions may be
revealed.

## Sard Vial of Healing

This vial is made of banded sardonyx and is the length and thickness
of a blacksmith's thumb. It weighs fourteen ounces at the moment and
seven ounces when empty..

The vial has five more charges.

Currently, the contents of the vial will cure seven points of damage
in the following order of precedence: Specific Grievous injuries >> EN
damage >> FT damage. The entire dose must be taken for it to take
effect, any excess healing is lost.

To empower the vial, an Alchemist must draw their own blood,
concentrate it, titrate it and decant it therein. The first point of
healing costs 1 EN, the next costs 2 EN, the third costing 3 EN, and
so on. This EN loss may only be recovered by natural healing. The
weight (less 7 ounces) indicates how many points it heals.

## Alchemical Formula

A Phylactery of Flesh and Bone, Bound in Shadow and Thought (Alchemy Rank 9)

Materials Required:
- Bone of the Forsaken – Ivory from a beast that has never known a grave
- Fibres of the Starved Mind – Thought Eater spinal filaments,
  preserved in void-salt and spun together with the tendons of night
  gaunts
- Ectoplasm of the Lost 
- Blood of the Maker – One drop, freely given
- Ash of a Broken Hourglass 
- Wax of the Nameless Candle – Taken from a shrine where no god is worshipped 

The Process of Creation:

Crafting the Skeletal Vessel
: Shape ivory into a hollow reliquary in the shape of a
skeleton. Engrave glyphs on the bone that preserve against rot and
deny rest. The ivory must be soaked in grave-essence, the leavings of
a corpse exhumed before it was forgotten.

Spinning the Fibres of the Starved Mind
: Weave the Fibres of the Starved Mind into a lattice within the
reliquary, threading them through channels of bone like creeping
veins. Let them drink from an infusion of whispered ink, made of
ravens' tongues and monk-sealed secrets, to grant the vessel stolen
voices.

Crafting Fateless Life
: Lay the Ash of a Broken Hourglass in a vessel of amber and set in
inside the skull, ensuring the vessel is anchored in time yet outside
of fate.

Binding the Spirit’s Flesh
: Slowly fold Ectoplasm of the Lost into the frame, letting it take the
shape of withered flesh. The specters within will scream but will not
escape. Let it harden under thirteen full moons, one of which must be
blue.

Sealing with Blood and Breath
: Drip a single drop of your own blood into the phylactery’s heart,
binding its will to your own. Speak this phrase: "Ut mortem fallam, ut
vita taceat."

The phylactery will awaken, hollow-eyed and knowing. It will move,
breathe, and whisper, but it will not live.


## Sienna

Natural Habitat 
: Arctic, Plains, Rural, Waste, Woods 

Frequency 
: Unique

Number 
: 1-2 (1) 

Description 
: Sienna is a Midsummer Fox about ten inches high at the shoulder, and
  is Summer/Fire aspected. She weighs six pounds, and can vary the
  colour of her fur black with fine silver traces that are only
  visible under moonlight, to brown, orange or brownish red to
  white. She gains +10 to Stealth, and a further +10 if in a natural
  environment that supports her colouration.  She has an acute sense
  of smell.

Comments 
: Sienna was born of a fox of Lyonesse and a vixen of Nualis. Her
  plane of origin is always the same as the person she bonds to.

Abilities 
: Sienna may Cast Petit Mort upon herself at Rank 11, and this counts
  as Racial Magic.  While under the influence of this magic, she is
  dimly aware of her environment.

She can Cast the Firelight spell by touching her target with her
brush, and this will manifest as blue-green flames.  In addition to
their normal effects, this fire will set fire to illusory objects
which are supposed to be capable of burning.

Movement Rates 
: Running: 300

----- ----  ------ ---  -----  ---  ---- ----   -----   ----------------
PS: 	5 	MD: 	19 	AG: 	24 	MA: 	8 	EN: 7 	FT: 12 

WP: 	18 	PC: 	12 	PB: 	14 	TMR: 	6 	NA: 	Fur absorbs 1 DP 
----- ----  ------ ---  -----  ---  ---- ----   ----    ----------------


Weapons 
: Bite: BC 50%, [D - 2], Close, A Class damage, Rank 9, advances as a
  dagger but can only deliver Specific Grievous injuries to creatures
  that weigh less than three pounds.

Brush
: Sienna can Cast the Pyrotechnics spell from her brush which will
  have the usual effects except that any entities in the volume of
  effect will be dazzled until they take 1 Pass Action (+ l per 3
  Ranks) to clear their vision. If they succeed, they need only take 1
  Pass Action. She can move half her TMR while Preparing this spell
  and half before, during or after Casting. This counts as Racial
  magic but Special Knowledge Counterspells of the College of Fire
  Magic apply to Resistance (only) and cannot prevent Casting.

## Ritual of Binding a Midsummer Vixen

Range
: Touch

Duration
: Immediate

Experience Multiple
: 250

Target
: Entity

Cast Time
: 1 hour

Material
: 101 flies or similar

Concentration Check
: Standard

Effects
: The Adept may attempt to bind a midsummer vixen that will serve them
  as a familiar. If the binding is successful, the Adept promises to
  feed and protect the vixen.

The Ritual confers no particular ability to communicate with
it. however, these vixens are noted for their ability to swiftly pick
up the language of those they associate with. If the Adept has a means
of speaking with foxes, then they can instruct the vixen while if
they’re within range.

If the Adept fails to feed and look after it on a regular basis, or
mistreats it in any way, it may run away. Otherwise, it will serve the
Adept to the best of its ability, warning them of danger, and so
forth. If it is killed, the Adept suffers [D + 5] points of damage in
the form of a magical backlash. This damage may not be resisted.

As the ritual is Ranked, the Adept and vixen gain abilities according
to the following schedule:


-----   ------------------------------------------------------------
Rank	Effects

0       The Adept acquires the vixen’s ability to sprint to safety, and so gains a Dash pool. For every Rank, including this, the Adept adds one to this pool. They may add 1/3rd of their pool, minimum 1, to their full TMR in a Pulse as a Free Act. The pool is fully restored at dusk.

1       While it is bound to the Adept, the vixen is a legal target for the Raise Dead ability of a practitioner of the Healing art
2	    The Adept may cast spells that target themselves on the vixen

3       When worn as a fur, the vixen will improve the Adept’s effective PB by 1 for every three Ranks. This is a function of fashion and  style, not an actual change to their appearance, and is limited to their racial maximum

4       The Adept may share the vixen's senses once a day. At this Rank, they may see through their eyes

5       Uncanny Dodge - The Adept gains the ability to avoid a physical blow by Breaking 100 + the unmodified damage of the attack, adding the vixen’s AG + their own to the result. This is a Reflex Action but cannot be used when surprised. This ability resets at dusk.

6       The Adept may draw upon the FT of the vixen to pay the FT cost of a spell or ritual. In addition, they can restore the vixen's FT at a rate of 2:1

7       The Adept sense of smell increases which improves their ability to forage, identify and find plants and animals, track, locate and identify herbs. The Adept adds the vixen’s PC to these Base Chances.

8       The Adept adds the vixen’s PC to the Detect Trap ability, if the Adept has the Thief Skill, and Detect Hidden if they have the Ranger Skill.

9       The Adept shares the vixen's senses twice a day. At this Rank, they may see and hear what the vixen sees and hears

10      The vixen can hold 1 spell matrix. This will not unrack unless the spell or incantation specifies that it will. The Adept must be in contact with the vixen to use the matrix

11      While the vixen is worn as a fur, the Adept acquires a sense for danger, by Breaking 100 + PC + Rank of this ritual, causing the hair on the back of their neck to rise. No further information is provided

12      The Adept may draw from their Dash pool to add up to 1/3rd to their half TMR movement in a Pulse as a Free Act

13      The Adept gains a second Uncanny Dodge

14      The Adept may share the vixen's senses three times a day, being able to smell as well as see and hear

15      The Adept may draw from their Dash pool and use up to 1/3rd of it to move and attack without attracting a penalty to Strike Chance

16      The Adept may, if they Break 100 and add the vixen’s PC to the result, find the nearest exit from an enclosed space

17      While the vixen is worn as a fur, the Adept’s social status is increased  by one

18      The Adept may draw from their Dash pool and use up to 1/3rd of it to move while executing a Defensive Withdrawal

19      The Adept gains a third Uncanny Dodge

20      The spell matrix becomes a spell lock, which the vixen can Cast on the Adept's behalf. This will not unrack unless specified by the spell or incantation
-----   ------------------------------------------------------------

## Herbs

### Root of the Terpsichorean Angelica

This purple root is vaguely carrot-shaped, crisp and very sweet. It
grows in sunny prospects and requires regular watering, but is
otherwise a generous companion and shares the space well with
marigolds and beans. It requires the skills of a Herbalist of Rank 4
to gather, and requires 10 hours of care a season, divided by the
Herbalist's Rank. The least amount of time that must be spent
cultivating it is 1 hour and if this maintenance time is not met or
exceeded, it will wither and die.

The root may be steeped in a bath of clear fig brandy and laid down by
the autumnal equinox, and drawn no earlier than the next which will
produce a number of tinctures equal to three + Herbalist Rank.

If added to a meal or tisane, then whoever partakes increases their
chance to perform a feat of dance by the Herbalist's Rank.

### Phoenician Lavender

This shrub has a bright purple flower is hardy, prefers arid, sandy
soil and a sunny prospect. It needs a firm hand, else it will quickly
overwhelm the garden. It requires the skills of a Herbalist of Rank 4
to gather, and requires 18 hours of care a season, divided by the
Herbalist's Rank. The least amount of time that must be spent
cultivating it is 6 hours and if this maintenance time is not met or
exceeded, it will spread like a weed and outcompete more delicate
plants.

### Phoenician Incense

Into the cupped hands of a child of ten, pour enough lavender petals
to fill completely. Leave to dry under eleven sunny days from an hour
after dawn to an hour before dusk. Take sandalwood the size of a
fuller's thumb and grind together with the petals in a malachite
mortar with a diorite pestle until a fine powder is achieved. Stir in
as much gum arabic to form a paste, and pour into molds in the shape
of cones which is as deep as the least finger of a child of ten and
perhaps half that wide. Set aside near a baker's oven from one Monday
to the next. This is enough to make six cones.

Upon lighting, the cone will burn for an hour and sweeten the air of a
room as wide and as long as six strides of a lady of grace for another
three. Any who rests in this environ will restore one FT additional
per hour.

### Variegated Thyme

This ground covering, small-leafed herb has different coloured edges
depending on the season - pale green for spring, blue green for
summer, red for autumn and white for winer. It enjoys a sunny
prospect, prefers dry soil and sparse watering. It is very delicate
and spreads very slowly. It does not suffer companions and needs a
stone border.It requires the skills of a Herbalist of Rank 4 to
gather, and requires 24 hours of care a season, divided by the
Herbalist's Rank. The least amount of time that must be spent
cultivating it is 8 hours and if this maintenance time is not met or
exceeded, it will wither and die.

### Thyme of the Season

Collect as many leaves and stems of the thyme that will fill the
cupped hands of a child of ten at midnight of a solstice or
equinox. On the next Wednesday, wash and dry them at dawn and leave to
stand in a warm dark place until Thursday noon. Wrap in muslin with
the skin of a lemon and three flowers of rosemary and direct a child
of ten to roll gently for as long as a Herbalist can abide their
complaints. Add to a round-bottomed flask of glass and pour over
enough farigoule or white brandy to immerse the contents and seal
it. Leave it in a cool, dark place for fifteen days from Friday,
shaking it for fifteen minutes each day. On a Saturday, distil and
capture the vapours in as many glass phials sealed in beeswax as the
Herbalist has Ranks. Each phial must be kept in darkness for two
seasonal festivals before it becomes effective.

When a phial is broken it will release a transparent mist over the
megahex, which will provide a seasonal bonus or penalty of 10 to the
die roll depending on the aspect of those in the area and which will
last for twelve Pulses.

### Claret Sage

This perennial has furred, dark red, aromatic leaves and thrives in
warm, dry environments. They prefer mildly acidic or neutral soil of a
sandy or loamy character. The soil must be well-drained and requires
mulching with sand or gravel every season to keep the roots dry. It
prefers deep shade and will suffer if exposed to direct sunlight. It
requires the skills of a Herbalist of Rank 4 to gather, and requires 8
hours of care a season, divided by the Herbalist's Rank. The least
amount of time that must be spent cultivating it is 4 hours a season
and if this maintenance time is not met or exceeded, it will wither
and die.

### Sachet of Claret Sage

The flowers and leaves of this plant must be collected before the
onset of winter and after the autumnal equinox, then bound into as
many parchment sachets as the Herbalist has Ranks. These must be
stored in a dark, cool place for at least a year.  When used as the
material component for the spell of Healing (G-6) of the College of
Earth Magic, there is no onset time and the healing effect is
increased by the Herbalist's Rank.

### Love Lies Bleeding

This creeper has dark green vines and leaves, red petals with white
stamens. It needs a sun-facing trellis, careful watering and a
slightly acidic soil. It must be pruned with caution to avoid
legginess. It requires the skills of a Herbalist of Rank 4 to gather,
and requires 8 hours of care a season, divided by the Herbalist's
Rank. The least amount of time that must be spent cultivating it is 4
hours a season and if this maintenance time is not met or exceeded, it
will wither and die.

### Twinned Blooms

Two cuttings must be taken from a single plant. The cuttings must be
raised near two sentient entities who dwell in different
locations. Each must bleed directly into the other's bloom, which will
inflict three points of FT damage.

Each bloom will survive without care unless one or the other entity
dies, in which case both blooms will wither and die by the next
occasion of noon.

## Ritual of Enchanting Crystals

Range
: 10 feet (+5 feet / Rank)

Experience Multiple
: 300

Base Chance
: 75% + 1% / Rank

Cast Time
: 1 hour

Effects
: Callas can enchant a crystal into a Crystal of Vision of equal Rank.

Callas can add Clarity to a crystal which will make it at least
translucent and likely transparent, improve it's gem qualities, and if
it has been made by the Gem Creation spell, will change its duration
to Immediate.

In addition, she may store visible memories by enchanting crystals according to the following schedule:

Rk    Effect
---   ---
1     store a static image (object or entity) in the crystal.
3     store the image of an entity
5     store the image of a scene
7     project a static image stored in the crystal
9     project the image of an entity stored in the crystal
11    project the image of a scene stored in the crystal
13    animate the projected static image stored in the crystal
15    animate the projected image of the entity stored in the crystal
17    animate the projected image of the scene stored in the crystal
18    make a static image stored in the crystal real for one minute, destroying it
19    make the image of an entity stored in the crystal real for one minute, destroying it
20    make the image of a scene stored in the crystal real for one minute, destroying it

## Clarity

Three Sanity may be converted to one Clarity during Purification which
may be spent as a Free Action to make sense of gathered information.
It cannot be used to collect information, per se, but provides an
opportunity to make sense of information that is confusing or to
winnow out deceptions.

As a Free Act, Callas may elect to penetrate an Illusion by spending
Clarity with her Enhanced Vision Talent, and, if successful, see the
underlying reality.

She may also cure mental illnesses, diseases, wounds or injuries by
adding Clarity to an attempt to Heal according to, but not limited to,
the following schedule:

Rk    Effect
---   ---
1     minor phobia, minor addictive habit
2     obssessive disorders (hand-washing, Tourettes Syndrome, compulsive tics), attention deficit
3     minor depression or mania, gluttony, sexual perversion, compulsive hoarding
4     inappropriate emotional response, delusions of grandeur, major addictive habit
5     hallucinations, hysteria, confused identity, major phobia
6     homicidal mania, clinical depression, fits & convulsions
7     epilepsy, paralysis of limb, hysterical loss of sense(s)
8     periodic catatonia, grand mal epilepsy
9     permanent catatonic state, coma
10    vegetative state

## Crystal Wand of Linking Sense

This crystal wand is 31 cms long, tapering to a five faced point at
the tip, and weighs eleven ounces.

Charges
: 6    5    4    3    2    1

The wielder adds their MA Bonus and Enchantment to the Cast Chance. If
their WP is greater than the target, they further increase the Cast
Chance by the difference. If it is lower, then the Cast Chance is
penalised by twice the difference.

Cast Chance
: 38%

Range
: 105 feet

Duration
: Conc. Max. 70 minutes

Resistance
: Active & Passive

Target
: Living entity

Effects
: The Adept may Trigger this effect by pointing the wand at a target
within range that they can see and requires but a Fire Action. If the
target fails to Resist, the Adept may see through the target's eyes
until the spell ends.  While it is in effect, they may not apply their
Agility to their Defence, nor may they see through their own eyes.

## Crystal Wand of Mental Fingers

This crystal wand is 31 cms long, tapering to a four faced point at
the tip, and weighs eleven ounces.  Charges:

7    6    5    4    3    2    1

The wielder adds their MA Bonus and Enchantment to the Cast Chance. If
their WP is greater than the target, they further increase the Cast
Chance by the difference. If it is lower, then the Cast Chance is
penalised by twice the difference.

Cast Chance
: 38%

Range
: 45 feet

Duration
: Conc. No max

Resistance
: None

Target
: Object

Effects
: The Adept may Trigger this effect by pointing the wand at a lock or
  trap within range and that they can see, requiring but a Fire
  Action. If the spell succeeds, they may attempt to Remove Trap or
  Open Lock without getting any closer.

## Ear Serum × 2

This brass ball is four centimetres across with a screw on cap, and
weighs four ounces. It contains a bluish, soupy liquid which, when
poured into the ear of a single entity, cures deafness from any cause
except those that require complete regeneration, and only taking five
minutes.

## Eyestalk Harness

This cuir-bouilli gorget is studded with bronze rivets and weighs 1 lb
and 9 oz. It increases the wearer's Defence by 3, and in the event
that Specific Grievous Injury result is 68 or 69, then 2 is added to
the D10 result to determine the location of the wound. A result of 11
or 12 indicates that the Specific Grievous Injury has missed
completely and no damage is inflicted.

At a cost of 1 FT, the wearer may extend one or more of their eyes (to
a maximum of 5) on stalks that extend as far as 50 cms for twelve
Pulses.  In the event that the wearer receives a Specific Grievous
Injury that results in an amputation, then an eye is lost.

## Animated Exoskeleton

This device is eighteen inches tall, made from curved tiles of dark
green laen connected by rods of orichalcum, and will fit a
brownie. The wearer must sacrifice 1 EN to bind the exoskeleton to
themselves, whereupon it will raise the wearer's

* PS to the next prime
* AG to the next prime
* non-flight TMR to the next prime
* Defence to the next prime
* NA to the next prime

It will also convert the wearer's Natural Armour to Damage
Reduction. This will not apply to poison, disease, Disruption,
Necrosis, Putrid Wound or similar effects

## The Horse Shoes of Ishkur

These shoes are made from the bones of nephilim. Typically, only four
of them may be worn at one time, and although they can be swapped out,
the magic of new ones take a week before they start working. When a
shoe is removed, it immediately stops working.

### Shoe of the Horn

Grants the ability to project a yard long illusory horn of shadows; 
The mount can:
- make a Presence attack with a base bonus of 15% and cause Fear
- dispel an illusion by touch once per day.

### Shoe of Robust Health

Improves reslience and resistance to disase
- +10 to Resist Disease
-  multiplies the amount of EN recovered from Natural Healing by 5

### Shoe of the Transformation

Improves the duration of a shape change

- multiplies the duration of a shape change by 12
-  provides one extra shape change per day

### Shoe of the Dark Flames

Leaves a trail of hoof prints that burn with dark flames where the mount has passed

- once a day, the mount (and rider) become shadowy and return to where
  it started in the previous Pulse so long as they traveled overland
  and by their own means.

### Shoe of the Thunderer

Increases the amount of damage of any kick or trample by 1 D10 and all are rollup dice.

- once per day, the mount can deliver a Charge attack that is
  perpendicular to their facing. This allows the mount to attack every
  1 hex (or less) creature in every hex that it passes through up to
  its full TMR, and this is considered a Trample.

- after rearing, the mount can deliver an attack to every creature in
  their front facing hexes. Unless their opponent is a multi-hex
  creature, this is resolved as an attack rated for Close but carries
  a 20 point penalty to Strike Chance.

### Shoe of the Herd

Creates multiple images of the mount and rider. This can only be used
once a week, and resets on a Friday at dawn. Either

- create six other illusory copies of the mount (and rider) which will
  never travel further than five hexes from the mount

or


- create a single illusory copy of the mount (and rider) which can be
  directed to travel up to seven leagues away. It cannot fight or
  perform magic but it can speak simple messages.

### Shoe of Nightfall

This shoe can only be used once a month, resetting on the third night
of the Dark of the Moon.

- call night from horizon to horizon, taking half an hour

## Proscenium Wand

Range
: 120 feet

Duraction
: Concentration max. 10 minutes

Cast Chance
: 40%

This crystal wand is 17 inches long and streams with rainbow colours
when it is being used. The wielder adds their MA over 15, WP over 15,
half their Rank in Troubadour and Enchantment to the base Cast Chance.

It holds three charges.
3    2    1

Discharging a charge creates a visible phenomenon that is no larger
than 20 feet by 20 feet by 10 feet, and any dimension less that five
feet is considered to be five feet.

The image appears at a visible spot within range and lasts for as long
as concentration is maintained, or ten minutes, whichever is
least. The scene will seem real and include appropriate sounds,
smells, and temperature. Damage can't be created with this magic, but
it can be used to create visual impairments, distracting sounds and
distressing smells as if the magic were Rank 10. (Smoke Creation,
Create Fog, Noxious Vapours, Ethereal Orchestra, Audile Illusions.)

Creatures or objects in the area of effect can be moved or modified to
reflect behaviour. For example, a creature could be made to appear to
walk or talk, although the area of effect cannot be moved. Physical
interaction with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because
things can pass through it. If a creature discerns the illusion for
what it is, the creature can see through the image, and its other
sensory qualities become faint to the creature.

If the wielder Purifies with the wand in the hour before true Dawn,
then they roll a D10. If the result is a prime, then a charge is
restored.

## Copper Nails × 6

If this copper nail is driven into the foot print of a witch, Wiccan
or hag, then they will lose 1 TMR. They will also leave bleeding
footprints unless they take time to bandage their feet.

## Sedan Chair

This sedan chair is fully enclosed with silken curtains, is eight feet
long, two yards wide and five feet high. It will fold down into a
cylinder of enchanted wood and silk one yard long and six inches
across. It is large enough to seat 19 sizes of humanoids, yet only
weighs 25 lbs. It provides 8 Protection and 20 Defence to passengers
with respect to physical attacks from below.

A small, pintle-mounted ballista is placed at the right hand rear
corner of the chair, which fires javelins as if they were Heavy
Crossbow quarrels, inflicting 2 rollup D10 + 5 A Class missile
damage. There is no PS requirement to wield the ballista, but it takes
five Pass Actions to reload it, less 1 for every five points of PS in
excess of 20, minimum 1.

It is a legal target for the Instilling Flight spell, but with these
distinctions:
* the duration of the spell is 30 minutes (+30 minutes per Rank)
* if the Adept travels in excess of their TMR, then their Magic
  Resistance and Defence is reduced to zero (+25 for flying and
  movement).
* they may slow down from or speed up to the maximum speed so long as
  they maintain at least one hex of movement per Pulse.


## Trident of Frost and Mist

The tines of this trident were made from the tooth of a sea serpent
from the frozen north, set into golden brown larch wood.It has a faint
scent of grapefruit when it is warm or held for a time.

The base Strike Chance is 53%, requires PS 13 and MD 17 and may be
wielded one- or two-handed. It weighs 3 lbs, and inflicts damage
according to its prime, thus:

Result	Damage
---		---
1		2
2		3
3		5
4		7
5		11
6		13
7		17
8		19
9		23
10		29

To this is added 4, plus any bonuses for excess PS (to a maximum of
+4), bonuses for Rank and bonuses to Strike Chance and damage from the
Weapon of Cold spell (only). In the event of a Strike Check that is 5%
or less and a Possible Specific Grievous injury result that is greater
than 20, then another Possible Specific Grievous injury is rolled. If
this is also greater than 20, then a final roll is allowed.


If a spell of Ray of Cold is ritually cast into the trident, which
will require the Adept seethe ambergris in walrus milk, then it will
be stored therein. This process will cost as much as if the spell were
Invested into a scroll. The trident can hold eight charges of this
spell. The user adds their MA bonus, any Aspect bonus and Enchantment
to the Cast Chance, not the investors.

When the spell is released, requiring a Fire Action, the user may
spend two charges and cast the spell over a conical volume of effect
that it is 15 feet long (+15 for every two Ranks) and 5 feet wide (+5
feet per Rank)

The trident can hold eight charges.

--- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---
8   7   6   5   4   3   2   1 
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---

If a spell of Gaseous Form is ritually cast into the trident, which
will require the Adept add natrium to lamprey oil and stand well
clear, then it will be stored therein. This process will cost as much
as if the spell were Invested into a scroll.  The trident can hold
three charges of this spell.  The user adds their MA bonus, any Aspect
bonus and Enchantment to the Cast Chance, not the investors.

--- --- ---
3   2   1
--- --- ---

Both processes are noisome, and require a laboratorium that is remote
from decent folk, lest they take up arms for the remedy.

## Green Pool

Tulip has a pool that reflects her access to the Green, a wellspring
of the mystic power of plants and creatures of the natural world. The
DM may award her Green points for defending creatures and plants of
the wild, the environment the passage of the seasons or when she
undergoes a change that reflects the cycles of natural forces.

* She may spend these points to override her normal physical limits or
to manifest connections to beasts and plants.

* She can spend Green to boost any of stats except FT and MA at a rate
of one for one, but this will last only for a Pulse and is executed as
a Reflex Action.

* By taking a Free Act and spending 5 Green, she may employ a Feral
Strike and subtract 10 from her Strike Chances, her Melee or Close
damage being doubled for the rest of the Pulse.

* She may make one (only) extra opportunity when attempting to escape
from being held or grasped at a cost of one Green.

* She may take a Pass Action and spend one Green to improve or worsen
the reaction of a natural creature by ten, but this cannot modify a
value lower than 05 or higher than 95. This also applies to results on
the Fright Table.

* She may take a Pass Action and spend three Green so that she is able
to move at 1/3rd (truncating all fractions) of her TMR or movement
rate when she casts Blending on herself.

* All Green are are restored after Purifying on the next Dawn, however
all unused Green are lost at midnight of the Equinox or Solstice end
of season festivals.

## Wild Pool

Three Green may be converted into one Wild after Purifying.

Wild represents untamed, primal power—deep instinct, animal cunning,
or natural ferocity that lies beneath conscious action.

* While her Wild pool is not empty, she subtracts 5 from the result of
  any Herbalist or Ranger Check made in a natural environment.

* At a cost of one Wild, Tulip may make one (only) additional attempt
  to resist magic or Skill use that Fears, Calms, Controls, Compels,
  Binds or Hypnotises her.

* At a cost of one Wild, Tulip may invoke Cobra Strike and win
  Initiative.  However, she can only use this when her opponent is
  within her Melee or Close range and she is using natural weapons.
  Cobra Strike is faster than any "automatically win initiative"
  ability, except when executed by someone who also has it and has
  more (MD + PC) as well.

* Tulip may heal herself of damage, excluding the special damage of
  Specific Grievous injuries, Drain and burns by spending up to three
  Wild from dawn to dawn. If she spends one Wild, she may use it three
  times over that period, each use restoring 1 rollup D8. If she uses
  two Wild in one of her uses, she restores one rollup D8 + one rollup
  D10. If she uses three Wild in one use for that period, she restores
  one rollup D8 + one rollup D10 + one rollup D12. This is executed as
  a Free Action.

* Wild persists beyond the end of season festival, but is never
  restored once spent.

## Rod of the Void

This slender rod weighs 2 lbs, and may be wielded as a mace.  It
requires PS 12, MD 9 and has a base Strike Chance of 61%.  It inflicts
2 rollup D10 and may be thrown ten hexes.  When not wielded as a
weapon, it has the appearance of a decorative cane and its weapon
characteristics will not be revealed by Detect Aura.

* It inflicts one point of damage over five seconds to anyone holding
  it as a consequence of contact with the Void. Creatures that are
  older than the universe do not take this damage.

* The Void is considered to be dimensionally proximate to the entity
  wielding it.

* It incrases the wielder's PB by 1 to racial maximum, but if they
  have the distinctive appearance feature, it increases this by
  fifteen.

* Rank in Courtier is improved by one.


## Baba Yaga's Pestle

This heavy mace weighs 7 lbs, requires PS 22, MD 9 and has a base
Strike Chance of 53%. It inflicts one rollup D10 + 5 C Class damage in
melee.

When it is thrown, the mass increases for every hex it passes through.
Thus, for each hex it travels to its target, the damage increases by
one rollup D10 to a maximum of 5 rollup D10.  Four more damage may be
added for every 5 PS greater than 22, but bonuses from Warrior or
Assassin do not apply.

Once the Pestle has completed its movement, it returns to the wielder
in an unreadied state.  The wielder rolls a D10 at the end of each
Pulse, a 9 or 0 meaning it has become readied.

## Baba Yaga's Mortar

This marble mortar is seven inches in diameter and weighs 55 oz. Once
a day, resetting at noon, and requiring the uttering of a Word of
Power is uttered (Pass Action), it will grow to be five feet in
diameter but with no appreciable increase in weight.
 
It is a legal target for the Instilling Flight spell, improving the
Base Chance by 10, and changing the duration to 30 minutes (+30
minutes per Rank). So long as they maintain at least one hex of
movement per Pulse, they may choose to move at their Tactical Movement
Rate.

Defence versus ranged or melee attacks from below is increased by 20,
and Protection against these attacks is increased by 10.

## Critical Key

This bronze key is chased in silver and weighs 4 oz. If the wielder
rolls fifteen per cent or less of their modified percentage chance to
pick a lock, then it opens in a Pulse.

## Potion of Longevity

This transparent crystal phial contains a teal potion with swirls of
pearl and weighs 3 oz. Drinking the potion reduces the imbiber's age
by 1 rollup D12 years, to a minimum age of thirteen.  Taking a one of
these potions subsequently requires a Break 100 + EN roll to avoid
being poisoned. If they avoid being poisoned, then they may make
another age reduction roll as described above.  Otherwise, they lose
half their EN, which can only be recovered by Natural Healing, and no
other Potions of Longevity will work for them.


## Potion of Enhanced Restoration

This transparent glass vial contains a grey-green potion with dark
sparkles and weighs 2 oz. Drinking the potion terminattes the effects
of any potion and restores sixteen FT lost from any cause. It does not
cure poison beyond, perhaps, restoring lost FT.

## Staff of the Woodland

This oaken quarterstaff weighs 3 lbs, is shod with horn and living
mistiletoe winds around its shaft. It has a base Strike Chance of 67%
and base damage inflicts one rollup D10 + 5 C Class melee damage.

* If the wielder has Rank 5 with this weapon, they may wield it one-handed.

* If the wielder can advance this weapon to Rank 10, then the base damage inflicts two rollup D10 + 5. 

* If it is wielded by a Druidic spell caster, then the Base Chance of Spells and Rituals they know are incresed by 10.

###  Once a day

* The wielder may take advantage of a woodland environment to conceal
  their passage and as many others as they have Ranks in Ranger.  This
  costs 1 FT per entity so concealed, and lasts for as many hours as
  their Rank in Ranger, but does not reduce their overland movement
  rate.

* The wielder may assume the form of a sheltering rowan tree thirty
  feet tall and with a canopy thirty feet across.  This will allow the
  wielder to conceal those beneath their leaves by making a Stealth
  roll.  Detect Aura will reveal that the wielder is not a tree.

* The wielder may increase the Rank of a spell by two, which will
  affect range, base chance and damage, only.  This requires a Free
  Act.

The staff is a legal target for the Investment Ritual when storing
these spells:

- Converse with Animals
- Converse with Plants
- Armour of Earth
- Enchanting Plants
- Wall of Thorns

The total number of spells that can be stored in the staff is twelve
and they cost as much as if they were invested in a scroll. In
addition, they are triggered as a Magical Cast Action on their
Unengaged Initiative. In addition, anyone who has the Investment
Ritual and who has these spells may add store them in the staff.


## Staff of the Python

This redwood quarterstaff weighs 3 lbs and is shod with bronze. It has
a base Strike Chance of 61% and base damage inflicts one rollup D10 +
4 C Class melee damage.

If the wielder has Rank 5 with this weapon, they may wield it
one-handed.

If the wielder rolls in the range of an A Class Specific Grievous
injury then this is legal, as is a C Class Specifici Grievous injury.

Once a day as a Pass Action, the wielder may throw the staff to the
ground and it will become a massive python eleven yards long and under
their control, which will act on its own Initiative Value.  It may be
directed by the wielder as a Free Act, even return it to its staff
form. If the snake dies, then the staff is shattered. Otherwise, it
will be restored to full health the next time it is summoned,
generally speaking.

Movement Rate
: Slithering 450, Climbing 200

----- -------- ----- -------- ---------  ---------
PS 50 MD None  AG 12 MA None  EN 30      FT 35

WP 16 PC 18    PB 3  TMR 9/4  NA Scales  absorb 3
----- -------- ----- -------- ---------  ---------

Bite
: BC 115%, D + 6, A Class, Max Rank 6, advances as Unarmed Combat

Constrict
: BC    140%, D + 8, C Class, Max Rank 6, advances as Lasso

# Diary of Events

## 2024-08-09: Start game

- 20 × 20 Point Healing Potions (3 given out)
- 20 × Rank 10 Restoritives [D−2]+10 (4 used)
- 10 × Rank 12 Waters of Strength (1 used)
- 11 Wafers (use 4)

>In the shadowed realm where mortal woe and spectral might entwine,  
>A tale of dark and light unfolds in the world’s bleakest design.  
>Where ruthless fiends and holy men in fate’s grand stage do play,  
>The next three moons will spin their threads in destiny’s display.

>A wraith of dread with burning eyes, in torment’s guise arrayed,  
>By darkened lord’s command doth seek the hearts of men betrayed.  
>In lands where sorrow’s seeds are sown, where fear doth reign supreme,  
>The fiend with cruel intent shall weave a harrowing dream.

>In the murky depths of witchcraft’s art, a matron wise and bold,  
>Foretold by agents three of yore, the tale of terror told.  
>She sent forth those with secret aims, where fiendish shadows creep,  
>To pierce the veil of devil’s schemes, where mortal souls do weep.

>Yet far within the twilight’s grasp, a noble count remains,  
>Whose life, though freed from serpent’s mark, bears past’s enduring chains.  
>This count, with quest of balance bound, through hidden paths shall tread,  
>May thwart the devil’s ruthless hand while soul debt he does shed.

>A seer, veiled in mystic shroud, with visions deep and true,  
>Hath seen an urgent embassy, a path of fate to view.  
>This mission bears a humble quest to seek the noble’s aid,  
>To glean what truths the count might hold, in the murk where shadows played.

>In distant coasts where merchants plot, and schemes of power weave,  
>An enterprising schemer stands, with papal ties to cleave.  
>His cunning gaze on shifting tides, with alliances entwined,  
>May steer the course of coming trials, with threads of fate aligned.

>Thus, as the lunar cycles turn and shadows deepen still,  
>The forces of the dark and light will clash with potent will.  
>With every stride and hidden move, their fates entwine and twist,  
>In the grand design of cosmic dance where none may long resist.

>And so shall fate unroll its scroll, with twists both sharp and sly,  
>Till ends are met and truths are known beneath the cosmic eye.  
>In this tumultuous sphere of war, where mortal and divine,  
>Will weave the strands of destiny, by cunning or design.

- Lady Cerise
- Lady Suneth

- Give three healing potions for Magic Timer from Henry The Toymaker

- Take route which includes Garden which found a herb once in lifetime

- Go to Jiroth
  * Temple of the Singing Bees

- Head to Sura
  * High priest can send messages

- Head NE out of Sura
- Find tracks of creature with bipedal with claws (Blue Devil)

- Find alter dedicated the Beautiful Marquess
- Ritual causes devil to become Chtonic (becomes part of the
plane so cannot be banished).

- Head to farm, find tracks of four people.

- Get Taisman of Water

- 6 Copper Nail (+3 targets for Sinking Doom)
- 7 Omega horseshoes - Gem creation

- 3 × 3D10! Healing potions
- Wand - Can make an illusion real
- Sedan chair with balista
- Size 7 armour (cloth, quilted canvas) [5 points / 15 lbs if sized for human]

- Staff from orge mage, can store a ray of cold which can be cast as a cone, can store gaseous form

## 2024-09-22

- Spend four days in Sura
- Head down from Sura to the river plain
- Stay in village, plenty of plums and nuts

- Two days to Jesurea
- City walls curve to follow the lie of the land, to follow the same vertical elevation
- The gates are hinged
- Spend time healing locals and purify at the alter
- Learn "Wash wound" cantrip, currently at -30 penalty

- Spend day travelling to Carchemish
- There is some sort magic which alerts on scrying
- There is a local garrison, originally a local militia but now have has a mercenery company
- Mercenaries all wearing black metal scale mail
- See a few people with banded metal armour
- The three men are junior officers, on the rise, one of them is
  caster, probably a Mind Mage
- Increased monster presence on the roads
- Roads that are well travelled pull in the Astral and many creatures avoid this (gorgons)
- Gorgons have a bronze like metal on their bodies which can be worked but hard as steel
- Creatures that have ITNs are to be avoided all at costs
- Lamini can destroy willpower, target woman who can reproduce, then
  children, can take form of snakes and can appear as an attractive
  young women
- Chimerae also along the road
- Gain Sanity Pool with 1 point

Road from Carchemish to Hurrian is 450 miles over rough terrain.

- Travel ~300 miles and camp on the road
- Encounter a Strix over night while camping
- Hearing a tolling of a great bell at midnight
- Find Speedwell, small blue flower, which is enchanced

- Make a detour to Mount Ararat
- Could Earthdoor to Mount Ararat within the Land of Nod

- Head to Hurrian
- Stay night in Hurrian
- Cross the Mightnight sea to Al Mar'Heba and onto Aeaea.

- Aeaea is a city is not walled (for Callas)
- Lots of dyes and colourful cloth
- Loom is 6 feet wide
- The Crimson Sisterhood have a complex in the NE corner of the city
- Speak to Lady Cencise

- Comte de Versillac, using heart blood of a holy man and that
abjured the Mark of Serpent from this brow

- Get letter from Lady Cirese made out of satin for Jade Rain

- Travel to Hurrian and via the Astral to Jeroth
- Improve Rank of route though Lands of Chaos by 1
- Reach House Kerberoth and then enter the Abyss

- Travel though the Abyss and avoid an encounter with a shaggoth

- Travel though the Abyss again to reach Jade Rain

- Gain 4 points to Sanity pool

- Returned to House Kerberoth

- Lord of Demons turns up

- Giovani Crecentia (servent of Eye of Discord)

- Pope Sergius III

- The Compte is looking for Sweet Regret and a chalise

- Get an ivory plaque (15cm × 8cm) from Moonlight Sleeping on a Midnight Lake, which can be call him.

- Only come on nights of the Full Moon, the Vineyard of the White Moon.

- Give waybread to Sir Andrew

- Meet Guiseppe Biati

- Get Beauty Pool and add 2 point

## 2024-11-16

- Given wine that has captured some time so extends the period of enjoyment

- Sea of White northern Siberia

- Travel for 7 days heading towards Archangel

- Enter middlemarch known as the 3rd Heaven

- People in Archangel have had some contact with drow

- There are five bays to east and three to the west

- Winter pine, needles store summer

- Memory of Tiamat that apposes things that belong here

## 2024-11-24

- Retrieve a Silmaril 

- Return to Versilliac

- Head to Venice

- Sail to Alexandria

## 2024-12-01

- Gain 4 Sanity points

- 3 points of Sanity convert to 1 point of Clarity

- Use Waybread

- WP: 22 → 23 (5000)
- FT: 50 → 51 (2500)
- Resist pain: 15 → 16 (4800)
- Ranger: 6 → 7 (1 week)

### Green Cloak

Green Cloak: Mottled green cloak of spider silk. Protection D+5 to EN
and FT physical damage (stacks with any non-magical armour). +15
stealth in green areas.

- Gain 1 Sanity
- Encounter a group of Poor Clares

- Use Waters of Strength (+15)

## 2024-12-08

- +1 Sanity
- −1 Sanity (sacrificed)

## 2024-12-15

- Black Libraries are connected to White Towers
- There is a White Tower in London
- Black Libraries have an Astral presence
- Head to the Library
- Building blocky
- Learn Gem Creation Spell [S-6]
- Learn Creation of Crystal of Vision Ritual
- Get additional FT (starting at 5) track in the Heart for Light and Soul

## 2025-01-05

- Gain 5 sanity points

## 2025-01-12

- Use restoritive
- Get quill

## 2025-01-19

- Sybil is in Campagnia
- A great curse and a worm passed through the catacombs
- Serpent escaped and could take the shape of swarm of eels
- Nephilm don't know if the Vatic Oracle is there
- Catacombs a kind of middlemarch
- Spent four days exploring catacombs
- Find the Cave of the Sibyl in Cumae
- Place occupied by Dominicans (black robes with white sleaves)
- Up to 12 monks in place
- Group of women doing cleaning

- Return to cave and 5 of the monks armoured up

- Kill 5 martial monks and send 7 to Alusia

- Require a Mirror of Cyprian (on Cyprus)
- Needs the Face of Janus in it
- Get the Oracle's reflection in the catacombs
- Get 5 sets of Black Bronze chainmail

- Travel by boat to Palemo (1 day)
- Travel overland to Catania
- Travel by boat to Paphos (10 days)

- Gain +2 Sanity

## 2025-01-26

- Local lord is Federick Plantagenat
- Travel to Mount Olympus
- Find monastary
- Was a possible sorceror called Cyprian here, seven years ago, said to gone to Constantapole
- Alter is an astral gate, stronger than construct, less than sentient, colour is agriculture, dedicated to Terodicus
- Gain 10% chance of reducing FT cost of spell by 1
- Asterism associated is associated with corudum
- Learn ritual of Blessing of Crops & Livestock, cost 250 EP
- Learn of form of Diamond Weapon, peneration reduces armour, can add PS if swinging weapon, cost 1000 EP
- Learn Spell of Dearform, travel spell, cost 250 EP
- Hyena sent against us by the Great Beast Dog

- Spend another night at monastary

- Return to Temple

- Gain +4 Sanity

## 2025-02-02

- Find alter to Eros, associated with Will
- Head to Saint Andrew via the Astral
- Travel overland to Ravenna
- Find space in the city where something is missing, an octagonal space
- Locate astral gate nearby

>The twisted sister of Arachne lies in wait,  
>beyond the golden serpent attends it on the shores of the whites sea,  
>beware its burning eyes and breath of flame for he knoweth the lay of your mind and can bend it by hs song,  
>he is hiding in the memories of the people that live there and can be called forth by his name

## 2025-02-09

- Get two extra moths of January
- Thief: 1 → 2 (2 weeks, 1050 EP)
- Ranger: 6 → 7 (2 weeks)
- Stealth: 2 → 5 (no time, 6000 EP)
- Hind: 0 → 9 (11250 EP, 45 days)
- Gaze: 0 → 6 (6300 EP, no time)
- AG: 19 → 20 (5000 EP, no time)
- Tracking: 7 → 12 (5000 EP, 50 days)

- Tunnel under the janusite passages
- Find a ossuary with corpses (skeletons), undead because there spirits have been ripped out but they are still connected to their soul
- Use healer to "resurrect" the corpses to release them
- Can advance to Rank 8 Healer

- Find Astral gate into the Underworld
- Reseal the chamber
- Can see into the Underworld
- Find a couple of copper scroll (have incantations) and some stone

- Find toad hole: EP 125


- The mirror is a kind of wine cup

- Head to Rome
- Name is recorded and we are scryed
- Earthdoor into catacombes
- Call forth Janus
- Give him a waybread

- Use Waybread
- Use Waybread

- Inside a Teal coloured Shiffon, Foxhair
- +3 sanity points

## 2025-02-23

- Return to the half nephil
- Call forth the Vatic Oracle (call Mario)

- The Compte might be able to return the Red Laughter to Hell
- Niccolo Machiavelli is the name of the Eye of Discord
- Has control over Fate (which guides mortals) rather than Destiny (whihc guides immortals)
- Middlemarch east of 3rd Heaven to Lyonese
- Dragon in the south of France
- Be'armolomandt on the White Sea
- End of Great Amber Road

- End day 2 in Vienna
- End day 3 in Poland

- 6 Frost giants
- 24 polar bears
- 2 ice elementals
- 12 pale dwarfs

## 2025-03-02

- Got kicked by giants

## 2025-03-09

- Heal up 5 miles away
- Earthdoor another 10 miles away
- Use Waybread
- Ride around Antanai
- Reach St Petersburg
- Reach Archangelsk
- Find middlemarch that deflects divination, tied to an ITN
- Find middlemarch that have been piled up
- Gain +4 Sanity

## 2025-03-16

- No polarbear or wolve attacks this winter
- Head week east then three days south to reach a ghost forest
- Find two incantations, one of Smoking Magma, Summon and Control Earth Element and Earthdoor
- Turf finds an ITN of a beast (Zmey Gorynych)

- Spend 3 days learning Incantation
- Sacrifice 1 PC (25 → 24) near Novaya
- PC: 24 → 25 (750 EP)
- Attacked by polarbear, three pale dwarfs and a single frost giant
- Three war picks (ranks as a pick but can be used in close)
- Three sets of chitenous armour
- A bear worth of food
- Pipe & pouch of tobaco
- Fidget thingy made of 11 balls of ice
- Giant axe (3D10 + step 37)
- Use waybeard

- Travel 4 days
- Follow stream eastward then south
- Forest is in a deep valley that is warmer
- Place is an impact crater
- Gain +2 Sanity

## 2025-03-23

- Take Waters of Strength (+13)
- Trigger Enhance
- Use restorative
- +5 Sanity points
- Use 4 sanity
- See via Crystal of Vision a demilich

## 2025-03-28

>From hollow sockets, midnight tendrils blaze,  
>Black beams that feast on light’s forsaken breath.  
>Each photon turned to force, a dire malaise,  
>That drags the living toward their clutching death.

>No shield deflects the weight of ceaseless dark,  
>No armor bends the spectral fingers back.  
>Momentum steals the step, the limbs grow stark,  
>As flesh and fate dissolve in onyx wrack.

>Yet deathless lords have secrets bound in bone,  
>A whispered name upon a phylact’ry sealed.  
>Destroy the soul within—by fire or stone—  
>And watch the eldritch horror’s power yield.

>So strike the heart it keeps in crypts unseen,  
>Lest shadow’s grasp make dust of what has been.

## 2025-04-06

# 2025-04-06

- Kill demilich
- Get two baltic amber eyes
- 21 brothers and 3 mind flayers in the teeth
- Use charge of storm orb
- Lost 24 FT permanently but restored from destroyed teeth
- Find scrolls from monks and mind flayers
- +5 sanity

- Travel back to Archangel
- Sacrifice 1 PC (25 → 24)
- PC: 24 → 25 (750 EP)

- Stone wall is Bound Earth
- Use Waters of Strength +18 PS

>Gilded in flame, he coils through the night,  
>Lurking where shadow devours the light.  
>A whisper of doom in a dreamer’s breath,  
>Unwinds the sweet thread that leads into death.  
>Rising in silence, unseen by the eyes,  
>Under the skin, he spins whispered lies.  
>Neither sword nor strong will can break his spell,  
>Ghosts heed his call from where secrets dwell

- Storage Crystal
- Crystal of Linking Senses
- Wand of Mental Restoration

## 2025-04-13

- Void cruiser crashed and created the crater
- Cresenti visited with abbey
- Ended up in a fight
- Eye of Discord was on the ship and betrayed Crescenti and escaped and released the demilich
- Helen fien death (plain of origin is Isencare, permanent rank 60 trollskin)
- Person is Dr Wormwood, says 'Look out for the mandikyte'
- Search void cruiser
- Break phalactery
- Get +3 Sanity

## 2025-04-27

- Go to area where middlemarches are converging

>When flame and smoke breathe thrice upon the shore,  
>And mortal dreams bleed gold into the deep,  
>The shrouded oath shall open up the door,  
>And waken that which even void would keep.

>A cry of broken earth, a blade unstrung,  
>Shall call the eater forth from starless den;  
>When ancient breath meets songs yet left unsung,  
>The weaver's jaws shall stretch to feast again.

>Three times the fire must scour the sacred field,  
>Three times the stolen thoughts must knot the way;  
>Then shall the gate, by hidden blood, be sealed,  
>And she shall climb where once no light could stay.

>The world's own sigh shall loosen lock and chain,  
>And hunger rise, unfettered, crowned by pain.

- Convert 12 Sanity into 4 Clarity then spend 1 curing Black
- Use waybread

>In secret looms the blade of woven shade,  
>Whose edges slip through time’s unraveling seam;  
>A hand of dark on lightless forge was laid,  
>To stitch the night in folds no sun may dream.

>No metal sings within its formless frame,  
>No hammer rang to forge its hollow breath;  
>It thirsts for earth to cry aloud its name,  
>It drinks the world and sows the seed of death.

>When driven deep where hidden marches meet,  
>The wound it carves shall bleed the weft of skies;  
>Through broken soil shall hunger spill and fleet,  
>And ancient black shall weave her million eyes.

>One blade, one cry, one sundered living thread,  
>And lo, the spider wakes the tangled dead.

- Gain 5 Sanity points

## 2025-05-04

- Return to Novaya
- Hear stories about magical white bulls and a magestic white bird
  that watches over their activities, has silver eyes and was a
  seraph
- Head to St Petersburg the following midday
- The town gates are fortified as people have gone missing
- Head out and camp out over night
- Find patrol's campsite in the afternoon and continue on for another few hours
- Camp overnight
- Reach camp of patrol
- Sven, swedish and has worked in Byzantium
- Travel all day and reach a forest about 3pm, following the tracks
- The tracks we are scouting are going around the forest
- Camp overnight, the area is briny marsh
- Area smells of witch salt

- Attacked by a witch's hut
- +3 Sanity

## 2025-05-11

- Use Wild Hunt to chase the Hut
- Capture Hut, long lived sentient
- Staff of the Woodlands
- Staff of the Python
- Rod that opens into the void
- Candle of the Deep
- Blue gem (Great Sapphire shard)
- Yellow gem (Topacious Stone)
- Cloak of Many Fashions
- Spent PC by where the hut was killed
- Use waybread
- Get to witch
- Her bones are black bronze
- Potion (×3) [3d10!+8 healing, potion of longevity [1d6+6 years], enchanced potion of restorative and also stopped poison, restores 16 fatigue]
- Key with a question mark worked into the head, can open any lock in a pulse (5% chance)
- Find two rings, an amulet and blue pearl (lets you immediately recast the last spell, costs 36000sp to make into a pin)
- Amulet has a figure of a raven, can be used one every two days
- Ring of Wound Closure (doubles around of natual healing, stops bleeding out if below 0 EN)
- Ring of Water Walking
- Mortar is a target to Install Flight spell with 10% bonus and control the speed, 12 points of protection from attacks from below
- The pestle can be thrown as a mace

- Travel another 3 days and reach a basement
- Find a black sapphire 
- Find another gem
- Find universal solvent (a two part potion)
- Find seedling trays

- +2 Sanity

## 2025-05-18

- Get Staff of the Woodlands
- Get Great Sapphire
- Earth Door back to Novoya
- Ride back along the road towards the forest
- Find merchants, who were attacked by three packs of wolves
- Return to St Petersburg
- Return to Arkangel and everything has been destroyed
- Spend 1 Clarity point
- Go to point of where middlemarches are intersecting and the plane is unweaving
- Call Mandos
- Currently Monday, the big U will turn up by Friday
- Balrog is Big G's breath weapon
- There is an Eye related ally of the big G
- The Great Bear is near
- Head three hours away
- +3 Sanity

## 2025-05-25

- FT: 51 -> 52
- MA: 22 -> 23
- Create two investments (Wall of Stone, Rank 12)

## 2025-06-01

- Use restorative
- Play Butler

## 2025-06-08

- Use Foxglove
- Special crystal
- Great Axe
- Sword
- Sword
- Rod
