---
title: Academic Pursuits
date: January 6, 1995
---

# Notes from the Guild Scribes'

The plot is this adventure is to return a box of notes to Professor
Cornelius, of unknown abode, discovered in the ruins of Novalar. He left
Novalar after it was originally taken by Aquila and just before it was
retaken by Aladar. It is known he travelled to Hamburg, County of
Tuscana, via Bowcourt.

In October a collegue in Mittalmark Hauptstadt received a missive from
him saying he had arrived in Hamburg and was looking for a place of
residence. The letter, postmarked from the Black Rabbit, did not say
where he finally intended to live, but did ask that if the couple of
items, left behind in the rush to leave Novalar, be returned, and he
added a promisory note, equivilent of 5,000 Kazalan silver pennies,
drawn by the Hamburger Volksbank.

In late January (January 26), in the ruins of the Professor's house were
found two small chests, 1' cubes each, warded with Rune Night Stalkers.
The Aquilans, not wanting such items, passed then on to one of this
collegues, Doctor Zagalli, who was helping salvage what little remained
of the great works of Novalar. He, unable to deliver the chests himself,
had the bank note brought down from Mittelmark Hauptstadt, and then had
it portalled down to the Guild for a group of adventures willing the
brave the frozen death east from the coast.

The chests arrived at the Guild on February 9, 1995 AP and were
divinated that night. Not wanting to keep such item either, Guild
security has been asked to organise a party of adventurers to quickly
deliver the items.

Since about the start of the month a raging storm has swept the
continent from the east, across the sea of grass, making the mountains
to the east of Karzala and Ranke impassible. While it is known that
creating portals into the region is outlawed and any found are destoryed
and, where possible, its creator is imprisoned, it is strongly rumoured
that one of the ruling families of Hamburg does have a Rune gateway from
Ranke City to Hamburg.

Word has it that while it is heavily guarded it is opened to the general
public, or at least the more respectable or ranked members of the
populace. It is not clear at this point how much it costs or if any
other gratuities are needed.

## Professor Cornelius

While our notes on Professor Cornelius are limited it is known that he
is Adept of Rune College, specialising in obsure Rune rituals. He is
over 70 years old and has one of the largest collections of primitive
rune rituals known. While he has investigated early human magic,
primarily developed soon after the Downfall, his understanding of
archaric Elven and Drow magics is still notable.

## Night Stalkers

Night Stalkers are creatures from the elemental plane of Death. They are
mana constructs rather than spell effects, that is, they are summoned
and can be banished, but not dissipated. They are not sentient and
always have a specific purpose in existance. They tend to take any
command liberally and attempt to slay as many people before fulfilling
their orders, upon which they return from whence they came.

Night Stalkers are visible and have similar behaviour to Spectral
Warriors except they are much more destructive.

Related to them are Invisible Stalkers, which are Mind Mage Indectable
to all but the entities it is currently attacking.

# Basic Plot

Travel to Ranke city, 140 miles north of Seagate. Averaging 30 miles /
day on horses, will take 5 days. If have celestial then can only fly for
about 3 hours / day. That is it will take two days and be forced to land
in the wild.

Out in the wild they will be attacked by bandits. They will flee once
the fight turns against them. They will not be carrying anything of
significance.

## To Ranke City

The Rune Gate is a fortified manor house about 1 mile outside of Ranke
city. There is no need to enter Ranke City itself. The manor will have
atleast three mages, an E & E, Mind and Namer, an a dozen men in arms.
If Gate is only available between 12 and 2pm and only if the party is
respectable. It will cost 20 silver pennies per person. The guards will
never turn them away completely, but will rather flog them off for a
day.

## In Hamburg

When they arrive in Hamburg, they will be hit with an artifact with
records their aura into a crystal. If the GM is feeling nasty they will
show an Adept showing the crystal to an Insivible Stalker, which will
then go off to chase a person down.

### Aladarian Embassy

They will know where Professor Cornelius orginally stayed and will
direct the party in that direction (but not the actual location).

### Bureau de strangers

They will know where Professor Cornelius orginally stayed and will
direct the party in that direction (but not the actual location).

### University of Hamburg

The Department of Ancient Studies will know that the Professor visited
and tell them that he has left and gone on to Granada.

### Encounter with High Lady Miazzanna

She will at some point, most likely when the party is in the central
part of town, teleport in with two guards, one of whom will be Salas.

## To Granada

The will not be able to fly to Granada because of regulations and the
whether, but they will be able to hire horses at Luneburg if the require
it.

It will take two days to Thorn. In the pub on the first day there will
be a pub brawl with the locals. Unless something fatal occurs then
nothing will come of it.

## Thorn

Any party member attempting to enter Thorn will be phantasmed as a
warning. They will be able to stop at any of the towns at road
intersections. A ring road around Thorn exists. The remaining trip to
Granada will be uneventful.

## In Granada

The party will be able to find out where Professor Cornelius lives but
will have to go to the local constabulary to find out that he has gone
out onto the plains to examine some old ruins to the south east of the
city.

## On the plains

On the plains the party will be attacked by a group of marauding plains'
barbarians, after the party's horses (if they have any, otherwise they
will old the party to ransome).

## In the ruins

The party will find Professor Cornelius being attacked by undead,
probably a white and several nightgaunts. Professor Cornelius will be in
a Rune Circle. He will give the party ritual protection against undead
and they will have to fight their way out.

## Back in Granada

Professor Cornelius will offer to teach several rituals to the party as
payment.

## Back in Hamburg

They party can visit Torrino Valtenio, the Guild's correspondant there,
who will give the party a note to give to the Seagate Times.

## Home again

The party may be attacked again by wolves on the way home if time is
available.

# Rewards

Each party member should make about 5000 silver pennies in all, and
possibly learn a ritual. The ruins may contain some old weapons and
armour, but not of considerable value. They party may get weapon, shield
or armour ritual.
