---
title: A Plague Upon Thee (Part 1)
author: Belladonna
date: 1/11/805 WK
---
# Precis

GM
: Ross
Game Dates
:   1 November 2005

Experience
: 12000xp

Loot
: Teaching Rank 8 Healer, Alchemist or Mechinician, or one Mind College spell, plus 15,000sp.

## Overview

A sample of a deadly plague has being recovered by a guild party.
Sebastian of Hamburg has asked us to capture a minion of the Blood Lord,
of the packet plane, whose alchemical knowledge may help them develop an
antidote.

## Party

Turf
:   A large muscular elf with astonishingly attractive feature. His head
    is shaved and is covered in unusual runic tattoos or an unknown
    origin. He wears green silk armor, a worn black cloak and knee high
    leather riding boots. Turf has the look of one with remarkable
    martial prowess and is rarely seen without a weapon at his side. The
    party scribe.

Blitzkreig
:   An agent of the Powers of Light and master warrior.

Ty
:   A good man and powerful warrior.

Tari
:   A new recruit to the guild, a young elven woman.

Tulip
:   A young elven woman with talents in magics of the Earth.

And Scab - for the hard bit
:   Scab is disguised as a sasquatch. Though it doesn't take a high
    rank spy to tell he is actually an orc of little standing and less
    social skill.

# Narrative

Ty received a missive from Sebastian of Hamburg requesting his immediate
assistance. He had employed a guild party to work in the Dark Circle and
they returned with a sample of an incredible deadly plague, it was made
with such skill they required a talented alchemist to assist creating an
antidote. Sebastian had knowledge of the Pocket plane and asked us to
capture a minion of the blood lord. Our group was quickly assembled, and
met with Sebastian. He could offer little other information, but
provided a few magical resources.

We charted a boat and sail that very afternoon, and sail for three days
to the Five Sisters. The Sisters were under the dark shadow of the Dark
Circle, so we slipped ashore the in a row boat under the cover of night.
We were lead by Blitzkrieg for the next day through the desert, his
skill and knowledge of the desert allowed us to locate with standing
stones without encountering any forces. The following afternoon we
passed through the shadow of the stones, and the trouble started.

Travelers are always surrounded by darkness as the travel through the
Stones, however a few of us will keener eyes observed ripples in the
darkness, something that we have never seen before. We arrived safely at
the Standing stones on the Pocket Plane, but we quickly alerted to
trouble. The shore of the lake with normally teeming with people,
fishing and planning crops, but we saw noone, and it appeared the crops
were not tended for months. The heat was unchanged, it was unbearable.

We spent the next few hours slowly making our way to the tower of
Orthostopheles, there was not a single person or creature to be seeing,
almost as if inhabitants had departed. Our sense of concern was only
heightened to find the windows of the tower shuttered and the tower
apparently unoccupied. There was no response from our hammering on the
door and called out, it appeared Orthostopheles had departed. The
mystery deepened and our concern deepened.

After discussion it was agreed that we should visit Baccarat, the master
of fates. If anyone know what was happening it would be him, and he
would have seen our arrival and know of our visit. We struggled though
the desert toward the town that his casino resided though the
unforgiving sun.

The city was abandoned; no guard on the gate, banks of sand resting
against buildings and a complete absence of any humanity. The fountain
in the city was still flowing, and its cold waters provided relief from
the assault of the sun. It was clear to even the least trained ranger in
our group the town had been abandoned for some time. As we continued our
way toward the Casino we hear the signs of life, after must caution they
were revealed to be Imps ; 47 and 2. With food bribes one of the imps
stayed with us, and shared his tale although know to lie the Imps story
seemed plausible; almost three months ago ripples were felt through the
plane and the world went black. Hours latter the light retuned and
living shadows appeared and proceeded to all life with brutal
efficiency. The imps were caring for the human baby of Metasthopheles,
and he appeared with Orthostopheles, took the baby and disappeared.

We reached the Casino without further interruptions and begun searching,
Baccarat would have left a message. We quickly found four playing cards
from Baccarats deck deliberately placed turned face down on the a casino
table. I touched the first card and a image of Baccarat appeared, when
it became apparent that noone else could see the illusion I turned over
the card. We had a very interesting conversation with the illusionary
Baccarat, he reveled;

Sin and Bad could be back, the blood lord could place their spirits
within new bodies. The new bodies would not retain the power of the
previous incarnations but all the memories and knowledge. At this news
Blitzkrieg began drumming his finger over his Scythe and muttered under
his breath.

Entities entered the Pocket Plane physically, they broke through the
magical barrier.

The other card were Illusions of Orthostopheles and Delirium and one
other, that he refused to reveal. Further prompting regarding the
mysterious fourth card was fruitless, Baccarat reveled he was forced to
leave the card but nothing else. We decided to reveal the cards of
Orthostopheles and Delirium and continue the conversations.

The cards were contained specific memories of each of the entities, and
all three had left the plane a number of days following the invasion as
its destruction was impending. The card did not know when they were
destined.

The creature must have great power to penetrated the plane, they
suspected the Master would not have allowed them through unless the
prevention would have destroyed the plane.

The master is waiting for them to complete what they have come to
perform on the plane.

Following the initial assault the invaders fleetingly appear, they are
wispy shadows what are constructed form primal elemental forces.

The Shadows were believed to be focusing their efforts around the Blood
Pyramid.

A cache of weapons was hidden in the Casino that was available for our
use.

We discussed what action to take and the mysterious third card. We
agreed I would touch the card to see if the owner could be identifier,
and was struck with a terrifying prophetic vision of oblivion which was
to be chillingly accurate. We decided not to turn the card given the
visions and Baccarat inability to tell us who the card belonged. The
ground shook beneath our feed, so we decided to move with haste.

We located the cache of weapons and were very surprised by what we
located;

1.  a number of weapons of light
2.  Rings of recall
3.  A small wired cages containing a glowing yellow globe. There were
    revealed to be Light Spheres!

Blitzkrieg, used his desert ranger training and led us toward the Blood
temple. We surveyed the area and could not locate anything amiss, so
moved in carefully to search the temple. It was empty and dilapidated,
however the field surrounding the sarcophagus had disappeared and bodies
removed. Unable to locate a route to the upper levels of the pyramid,
and feeling the ground shake again, and agreed urgent action should be
taken.

Ty activated a Light Sphere to tunnel a hole to the outside of the
pyramid and began tunneling into the upper levels while Turf and
Blitzkrieg scaled the pyramid. The sphere disintegrated the stone to
revel a magical shield, through which we could see an unmoving human
body upon an alter, surrounded by six shadowy, wispy shapes. Things
suddenly became very dangerous.

Two shadows flew toward Turf and Blitzkrieg to attack them as the shield
fell, as a Dark Sphere appeared behind them. They ignored the flurry of
attacks and both cast banishment while Ty desperate tried to keep the
Light sphere away from the dark sphere. At one point Blitzkrieg
volunteering to throw himself in front of a Dark Sphere to stop it
striking a Light Sphere.

Turf and Blitzkrieg took the fight into the alter room, banishing
numerous Dark spheres that kept appearing. The Shadow were powerful
creates that took immense damage to destroy. Ty and Tulip were forced to
fight off a Shadow that appeared between them, forcing Ty to dispel the
Light Sphere and fight for his life. Tare scaled the side of the pyramid
with the magical birdcage in which we will trap the vampire. As the
fight continued the violent shudders continued, and howling winds
whipped the entire pyramid. Turf and Blitzkrieg resisted more Dark
spheres and whitefires as they slowly overcame the Shadows. With white
knuckles Tare valiantly clenched onto the side of the pyramid as the
winds and quakes threatened to shaken her off, and finally fell into the
chamber once space had being cleared.

As the fight continued the entire world began to shake, enormous
meteorites were striking the landscape and raining destruction upon the
land. Ty and Tulip activated their rings of recall at this point, as
there was little else they could do.

Blitzkrieg pulled the body we suspected was the reanimated vampire off
the alter and dragged it toward the cage is Tares grasp while Turf
engaged the remaining shadow creature. The vampire was conscious and
struggled, but was forced into the cage. Recognising their defeat the
remaining shadow cast whitefire upon the alter causing a massive
explosion that collapsed the floor. Blitzkrieg activated his recall, but
Tare was stunned so Turf remained to ensure she escaped then the world
exploded. It was later revealed that the pyramid was struck by a
meteorite and the plane destroyed a few seconds later. Turf found
himself holding Tares body while floating in a black void, he triggered
the ring Tare grasped and then his own.

The remaining party members appeared on a beach, battered bruised but
all alive. We patched ourselves up and followed the beach to the only
sign of inhabitation, a small village on the waters edge a few hours
walk from our position. The inhabitants was poor and lived a rough
lifestyle but we were able to discern that we were at XXX, in the
kingdom of YYY. We made fruitless enquiries trying to locate Baccarat
and Delirium and spent the first night on the beach, deciding the
village wasnt that enticing. The second day we purchased some slaves and
granted them freedom, and notably Delirium revealed herself to us. She
explained the Master had directed the majority of the explosion was onto
the vessel of the ship, sparing us. Orthostopheles was chasing
Metasthopheles, who was causing havoc in the area and Baccarat had
sailed off to search the kingdom.

Following much discussion, and the revelation that Bliitzkreig did
indeed have Expulsion, we decided to Banish Turf and he would summon the
others. A number of the freed slaves accepted our offer and to return
with us and Turf learn their names. One slave stayed with Delirium,
offering to become a go between that we could common to exchange
information with Delirium.

Turf appeared at the stand stones and flew back to Seagate. Sebastian
arranged a trip to Hamburg where and Turf summoned the remaining party
members. The vampire was taken into custody and we made our way home.

A week later we were contacted by Sabastian. They had learnt two
important facts; the plague was being manufacture at the head of the
sweet water and they had a device that would destroy the plague and
anything else within the area. The bomb was the size of a barrel and
unstable, so we must treat it with care. Blitzkrieg, be an expert
tactician, suggested a bold plan. We would sneak as close as we could
before we were detected and changed them once our presence was revealed.
We were transported close to the area and turf shape-changed into a bat,
make his was toward the encampment. He reverted his form and opened a
lamp, allowing the remaining part members to shadow walk in. We fought
our was through giant skeletal guard and bat to the centre of the
encampment that was shrouded in a mist. A bubbling cauldron

-   Necromancy couterspells kept us safe.
-   Mist injured and dissolved armour.
-   The dead restood
-   Banishing the fire beneath he pot ended the production of the mist
    and the closed slowly dissipated
-   Killed the necromancer and his minions, set the bomb and shadow
    walked away.

Missions accomplished. Returned to the rendezvous point and were taken
back to Hamburg.

# People

Blood Lord
:   An extremely dangerous entity that has power over blood and alchemy.
    His minions tend to be very dangerous vampires. His two lieutenants
    are Sin and Bad.

Orthostopheles
:   Gold Dragon - seems nice but is very old and a bit senile

Metasthopheles
:   Blue Dragon.
    -   Not very cleaver but known for his belligerent and unpleasant
        behaviour
    -   Was tricked by Blood Lord who took substantial amounts of his
        blood

Baccarat
:   A well dressed man, and powerful entity who resides in the pocket
    plane. He has great influence over chance and fate.

Delirium
:   A beautiful woman and powerful entity who resides in the pocket
    plane. She has great influence over the mind and illusions.

Sin and Bad
:   A deadly pair of vampires. Known to cast mind, necromancy and
    enchantments. Able to move in the sun.

Master
:   The mysterious and immensely powerful rules of the pocket plane.

# Places

Pocket Plane

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```

Hamburg
:   Region that Sebastian resided.

[Category:Scribe Notes](Category:Scribe_Notes "wikilink") [Category:Ross
Alexander](Category:Ross_Alexander "wikilink")
[Category:London](Category:London "wikilink")
