---
title: A Stitch in Time
author: Tulip
date: 1/1/801 WK
---

# Party

---------------- ------------------------------
  Game Master:     Ross Alexander
  Party Leader:    Turf (Terry Spencer)
  Party Scribe:    Tulip and Buzz (Tricia Hunt)
  Party Members:   Ty (Zane Hembest)
                   Vapour (Neil Davies)
  ---------------- ------------------------------

Hired
:   from the Seagate guild by Sebastian of Hamburg who works for Lord
    Harcourt and Pendelton to ensure that certain magical items are
    buried underground so that they are not destroyed in the burning of
    the forum in Republica on the plane of Aquarious.

Fee
:   fee of 3000sp each for the job, and no looting. Free stating spells
    of Strength of Stone, Armour of Earth, and Fire Proofing each and 1
    Waters of Healing and 5 Waters of Strength for the party as a whole.
    We have a fey magical item that will return us to the correct plane.

# Diary of Events

## Date: 1/1/801

Go out to the rune portal and meet Cornelius (rune mage) who gives us a
large trunk to put the items in. We are looking for:

-   Sword of Imperium -located in an iron scabbard in the main entrance
    to the palace, it is anti-unholy
-   Tolling Bell and one White hammer and one Black hammer-which is on
    top of Hanging Hill and sends souls away forever (so they cannot be
    captured by evil doers)
-   Chimes of Retribution - in the Basilica (which roof fell in very
    early)
-   Standard of Anti-diseshablishment - in the armoury in the main part
    of the Forum
-   Specific type of Books from the Library also in the Forum.

We travel via the stone circle and arrive at the temple in the present.
We are surprised to find that the Plaza has been cleared of bones. We
hear some delocalised chanting in the Plaza. We travel to the holy hill
and as the sun sets time changes back to the past.

We slip past the guards into the Forum and through into the Basilica,
were we ignore all the nobility gathered there. We climb into the dome,
retrieve the chimes, and climbing onto the outside of the dome.

Vapour casts flying, and we have an argument about what to collect next.
Tulip proposes that we should get the Bell next and ring it as we move
around so that there are fewer souls trapped in the city. After some
arguing the others concur. We take off to Hanging Hill, Vapour lands
badly into the crowd gathered there and we have a small spat. We ring
and then collect the Bell and Hammers.

We fly back to the Forum ringing the bell on the way and look for the
Library, we find it and collect the appropriate books. The library is
going up in flames as we leave. We then go looking for the Armoury which
is also in the Forum but it is magically locked and we waste some time
trying to open it, but we cannot get it open. We decide to get all the
other things and come back.

We fly to the Palace were we meet a very helpful old man who takes us to
the Sword, Turf wears it. Then the old man nicely tells us of an old
drunk Ducididies who might be able to let us into the Armoury. We find
and fly back to the Armoury, he can't get in but some of the soldiers
inside recognise his voice and open the door. We locate the correct
Standard, and also pick up some light armour for Vapour and put it into
the trunk.

We go and find a deep cellar near holy hill and leave the chest with all
the items there. The magical fey item (which Tulip carries) has started
belching black slimy smoke.

We then feel we have some time to ask questions and try to find out more
about the Sunsword. The emperor went on crusade (to fight a dragon) in
the Western continent. He was slain and approx one in ten men returned
but no one really knows much as it was all suppressed. We fly back to
the Palace and go to see the Regent, but he is not very interesting.

We fly back to the Holy Hill where the lake is now a silvery liquid and
DA shows a lunar alignment. We step behind the hill and Vapour throws
the fey item as far away as possible, a black swirling cloud billows out
as it smashes on the rocks and envelops us, we go out into the lake
hoping for some protection in case it is a nasty vapour.

When it passes we find ourselves in the present? and in the dark on Holy
Hill, and we seem to be glowing silver. DA shows that we are lunar
blessed with the ability to see as well in moonlight as if it were
daylight. We notice that the grass of Holy Hill extends further than it
did, and unlike previously we can see birds in the distance and hear the
small sounds of insects and animals, the atmosphere is lighter. So we
have made a difference in releasing the souls that we could by ringing
the bell. There is a dark ugly patch were the Fey item landed.

We wait 10hrs for dawn and go back to the Temple. We go to the obelisk
in the temple say the correct words and do the prescribed ritual and
return to our own plane, with -10 of FT. We arrive in the early morning,
see Cornelius, get our stuff and head back to the guild reporting to
Sybasitian in the afternoon. Interestingly we arrive on the morning that
we leave so it is still 1/1/801.

Time
:   1 day

Payment
:   3000sp each

Items
:   One suit of light armour held in box

Skills
:   Can advance 1 rank in Flying for no time

Magic
:   Party including Buzz is Lunar Blessed

Experience
:   2500 EP each with an extra 500 EP for scribe notes.
