---
title: Fresh Asparagras Tips
author: Kel
date: Winter 808 WK
---

# Mission Report {#mission_report}

GM
: Ross

Session
: Winter 808

# Unit Members {#unit_members}

Military Leader
: Ugbash

Military Coordinator
: Kel

Tactical Notes
: Kel

Soldiers
: Belladonna, Uzi, Reginald

Mission
: Destroy leaders of rebel army.

# Overview

The [Kijaand Empire](Kijaand_Empire "wikilink") are the lawful and
rightful leaders of the continent [Naraxlos](Naraxlos "wikilink"), of
the plane [Kanlaoise](Kanlaoise "wikilink"). Rebel armies are
threatening their rule and the our Mercenary Unit shall infiltrate the
army, obtain information regarding the army and, is possible,
assassinate key members.

Payment of 10,000sp is offered, plus additional bonuses for
assassinations.

## Mission Briefing (29th Frost) {#mission_briefing_29th_frost}

Loranda explains the threat to the empire by the Rebel army. As the
rebels are of mixed races, similar to the so the Unit, infiltration and
assassination is proposed. The names of the targets will not be revealed
until the targets are in sight in order to ensure secrecy.

The Unit make preparations.

## Departure (1st Snow) {#departure_1st_snow}

The Sun elves summon us to the city of [Sernoyia](Sernoyia "wikilink"),
in the eastern half of the Kijaand Empire. We arrive before dawn.

Barges travelling up river from [Sernoyia](Sernoyia "wikilink") are
targeted by the rebels and our Unit take the guise of mercenaries
pressed into service. As the races of the party match those of the rebel
they will offer to join them.

We depart after dawn and are attacked that evening. The attackers
consist of Orges, goblins, orcs and humans and we integrate ourselves
with them.

## Travel (2nd Snow) {#travel_2nd_snow}

We march on foot at night for the following week, camping during the
day. The group consists of a number of small independent troop, kept in
line by the iron fist of the secretive leader. We are aware they are in
communication with the senior members of the rebels but we are unable to
establish any identities.

The rabble join a large army and it is revealed the army will lay siege
to Sernoyia.

## Preparations (10th Snow) {#preparations_10th_snow}

As dawn approaches the lights of Sernoyia are observed on the horizon.
We are assigned a position an camp behind the shock troops, the
objective assigned to our Unit is to holding a bridge within the city.

## Preemptive Attack (11th Snow) {#preemptive_attack_11th_snow}

Our regular precognition reveals an attack against the encamped army by
Orcish shock troops. Forewarned, our Unit evades the attack. The harsh
fighting depletes the rebel numbers.

## Attack Launched (12th Snow) {#attack_launched_12th_snow}

A few hours prior to dawn the army launches their attack. The walls of
Sernoyia are well defended by troops and magic, however these slowly
fall until the combination of numbers and skilled shock troops. We enter
the city just following dawn.

We avoid the majority of fighting and secure a position near the
Harbourmasters square, where we believe the rebel leaders will head. We
observe member of the \'Broken Spine Ogres\' moving within the city -
these are elite troops are typically not active and we theorise are paid
merceries.

We discover the Elven slaves left in the city are infected with plague,
their purpose to infect the rebels. An excellent plan.

As the sun lowers heavily guarded horsemen enter the square, guarding
senior commanders. The commanders locate themselves in a prominent
building with the square.

That evening the square fills with troop and celebrations occur. Our
Unit observes the activities and we note the activities of Morgan,
Karath and Karasova.

Late that evening Uzi and Ugbash skulk out and retrieve a lone soldier
whom we may use as a patsy in future plans.

As dawn approaches the next morning, with the square filled with
sleeping troops. Morgan appears and wanders to a sleeping soldier,
bending over him for a few minutes them departing. Uzi and Ugbash enter
the square and examine the body - they discover the soldier is dead. The
retrieve the body and we examine it - the soldier died about the time
Morgan bent over him and there is no indication of the cause of death.

We bind the will of the soldier, Barant, and interrogate him, he has no
information to offer us. We observe for the square for the remainder of
the day, noting movements of the commanders. We note Morgan does not
appear during the day.

The army starts clearing the building adjacent to the square, and
various troops moving in. We are forced to relocate to avoid detection.
Ugbash and Uzi are able to bluff their way to the roof of a building
adjacent to the square maintain observations on the square. It\'s a
bright sunny day and Ugbash suffers.

We observe Morgan in the square that evening, after dusk, and the Orcs
the square to surreptitiously examine his aura. Morgan is a long lived
sentient with no known weaknesses and carries a magical staff that is
enchanted with strength. We suspect Morgan is pacted, rather than
undead.

## An opportunity arises (13th Snow) {#an_opportunity_arises_13th_snow}

That evening the weather unnaturally changes - mists rise and the
temperature drops, and troop appear to be rallying in the square.
Following some concern it becomes apparent that the Rebels are
controlling the weather in order to cause the river to freeze allowing
troops to cross the river and assault the river from multiple points,
not just the bridges.

After the troops move out we follow up, locating Morgan on a pier,
appearing to be concentrating on magic. Zelvich is will him but
eventually departs. We launch an assault out of the mists on Morgan with
magic and points then retreat rapidly. The attack was not sufficient to
kill him but he required unique magics to protect himself. We observe
the outcome via a crystal and observe Zelvich flying in to Morgan and
they have a heated discussion. We merge into the rear of the army to
conceal ourselves.

## Success (14th Snow) {#success_14th_snow}

Following some hours of moving through the rear of the army and locate a
warehouse in which to hide. All tired and lacking sleep we rest for a
number of hours.

Its late afternoon when we arise, the fighting continues but has reduced
in intensity as the long hours of combat is taking its toll on both
armies. Scouting with a wizard eye we locate both Karath and Bulich
engaged in battle.

Following some planning we decide upon a cunning attack against Karath -
he is a devastating fighter whose actions are pivotal in the fight, but
occasionally retreats through the lines to drink potions to heal. We
control one of this assistance that are feeding him potions and have him
retreat to our position. Belladonna is transmutated to imitate the
assistant and returns to the line impersonating the assistant, ensuring
that a poisoned potions is fed to Carath, then retreats, feigning
injury.

Some minutes later the poison takes hold and Karath drops, unconscious.
Fortunately he is in the thick of fighting at the time. Uzi slows the
surrounding troops and that provided the Sun Elves sufficient adventage
to push forward and slay him. They retreat with the captured body. A few
hours later the crucified body of Karath is displayed behind the front
line for all to see.

The Sun Elves shoulder the complete responsibility for the death of
Karath, no evidence can attribute his death to our group. We are very
satisfied with the kill.

Barant was slain, drained by Ugbash to invigorate himself before our
plan was enacted.

## Commanders

Morgan the Gray
: A human witch with a long beard. Individually the weakest and most
  likely to negotiate.

Karath of Tioth (killed)
: A human and ex gladiator. Exceptionally skilled with weapons and
  shuns magic. The easier to kill.

Zelvich Karasova
: Half elven female sorceress. The toughest of the group and most
  likely to fell is faced with danger. However we are assured she will
  return and extract revenge.

Bulich of Highvale
: A retired Orc chieftain with Sharman like abilities. A skilled
  fighter, but has slowed due to age. Difficult to isolate and will
  fight to the death.

[Category:Kanlaoise](Category:Kanlaoise "wikilink")
