---
title: A Manor of Fate
author: Tulip
datae: May 806 WK
---

Game Master
: [Ross Alexander](User:Evilross "wikilink")  

Party Leader
: [Ty Trident](Ty_Trident "wikilink") (Zane Hembest)  

Party Scribe
: [Tulip](Tulip "wikilink") (Tricia Hunt)  

Military Scientist
: [Blitzkrieg](Blitzkrieg "wikilink") (Adam Tennant)  

Other Party Members
: [Turf](Turf "wikilink") (Terry Spencer)  

Commission
: To find a manor on the plane of the Drow empire ([Kanlaoise](Kanlaoise "wikilink")) where  
[Delerium](Delerium "wikilink") and [Baccarat](Baccarat "wikilink") and
company can set up incognito and put in a portal from the Drow empire to
[Alusia](Alusia "wikilink"). First however, is to check out the old
portal from Alusia (at [Five Sisters](Five_Sisters "wikilink")) to the
destroyed pocket plane to see if it can be used at all.

Payment
: Some magical effect or spell to be decided after discussion.  

# Diary

## Date: 05/06/806

Take passage to [Adjepbar](Adjepbar "wikilink")
from [Seagate](Seagate "wikilink") – takes 6 days.

## Date: 10/06/806

Arrive in afternoon of 10th, hire camels and go out into the desert to
find the portal. Divine portal:

- still working.
- normal trigger (crossing shadows made by spire at 12 mid-day.
- has termination point → in "nothing".
- has unique name.

Precognate on going through portal puts us in "space" and instantaneous
and irreparable death. Camp overnight.

## Date: 11/06/806

Back to Ajipar, wait three days for a boat then sail back to Seagate,
taking another four days.

## Date: 18/06/806

Power up and go to [Kanlaoise](Kanlaoise "wikilink") with Delirium,
Baccarrat turns up, get illusion on humans that they speak Drow and on
Elves that they look more Drow like. Discuss options.

## Date: 19/06/806

Go to port, change Seagate money for local coin and then secure passage
to main continent. Travel over open sea. While sailing it becomes clear
that the ship is magically powered by a variant of a combined water &
air college spells, ie "mage wind/current" type spell (there are no
rowers and the ship movement is very precise and controlled), ship also
has "ship strength" spell and "binding" with some kind of permanent
"fire proofing" effect on it. Ship is called "Black Albatross",
shipmaster is "Tallaq" and is owned by house
[Tal'Kalim](Tal'Kalim "wikilink").

## Date: 22/06/806

Now hugging the coast of a major continent, pass a mountain chain and
weather changes dramatically, more moisture in the air etc.

## Date: 23/06/806

Arrive at very large (order of magnitude greater than Seagate) port of
[K'Resh](K'Resh "wikilink"). Follow sailor into a bar/smoking room and
secure a map of the continent and sea lanes return to ship in evening
and depart ... bad storms over next few days ... 24 through to 1st.

## Date: 01/07/806

Arrive at port [Z'Kan](Z'Kan "wikilink"), on the edge of a large delta
where a river flows into the sea, this is an area of festering swamp
with 100's of small flat islands. We turn to follow a large river inland
... more sailing upriver ... 2, 3 and 4th.

## Date: 05/07/806

Emerge from river into an enormous lake (more like an inland sea), and
stop at port [Alabaq](Alabaq "wikilink") on lake edge nicest city we
have seen so far, very clean, built out of stone, no lower humanoid
slums or "free" humanoids, mostly wealthy Drow with servants. City is
religious (not dominated by single Drow house), many priests pacted to
an entity called [Shahdad](Shahdad "wikilink") belonging to
[Cessoria](Cessoria_of_Shahdad "wikilink") sect. When Blitzkrieg DA'ed a
priest to determine this, he was targeted by magic "crush heart" but
Necro counters seem to work: don't DA priests! Arrange for rooms, stay
the night.

## Date: 06/07/806

Leave the city, check out the surrounding countryside, find an abandoned
manor and village and check it out, talk to Bakerak, stay the night at
the manor

## Date: 07/07/806

Divinate and ancient divination of manor:

- ground is protected from resurrection, talk to dead, reanimation etc
- no calling of dead

Something odd about a lake local to the manor, find a preserved body, at
least 30 yrs old with a necromantic curse / contagious plague "creeping
undeath". The curse holds body together in a state of undeath without
allowing and changes, such as true death or animation of undead etc. It
looks like someone doesn't want these bodies to talk! stay the night at
the manor.

We also work out that someone can scry us whenever we are not in the
shade.

## Date: 08/07/806

Ride back to [Alabaq](Alabaq "wikilink"), we met by 20 hard guards at
gate and escorted to an interview with priests at the temple of
[Shahdad](Shahdad "wikilink"), who tell us to stay away from the manor.
The manor is where the "old" emperor (and his entire household of 100s)
"died" for the heresy of dealing with necromantic magic's and another
god who is a lord or the underworld. Some of the elite guard of the old
emperor escaped and are active in this other sect which pose a threat to
the Sassoura who are currently in control of the empire.

We talk with a "white priestess" (in a place of power for the life
aspected?), the priests want us to investigate why the old emperors
elite guard are besieging an out-of-the-way and apparently unimportant
castle outpost. In return they will look for a manor for us to "settle
down" in. They will provide us with identification, some helpful magics
and offer us looters rights.

Return to our accommodation and stay the night

## Date: 09/07/806

Leave on a river boat for the Maraqat, it takes 3 days to get there, 09,
10, 11 ...

## Date: 11/07/806

Arrive in the afternoon, given food and horses and an amulet to avoid
one death. Ride out toward the outpost, camp for the night.

## Date: 12/07/806

During the day we pick up the tracks of a large number of troops that
have gone past travelling in the same direction. we see a patrol, attack
and take their horses leaving the men behind

We make the siege, check it out and have a planning session then make a
run for the castle wall and get over Tell the Drow in charge that we are
emissaries of the Sassoura sent to check out why the infidel guard might
want into this castle, he gives us leave to look around

We decide to wait until morning to checking things out further

## Date: 13/07/806

In the lowest basement there is an all cold steel room with a locked
door at one end, which emanates un-natural cold, in checking out the
door Tye is impacted by "magical glaciation" which slows the manna flow
so that spells take twice as long to activate. We decide to speak to the
commander before poking any more.

Turf has a private conversation with the commander who turns out to be a
very very old not quite Drow but not quite Elf, from the era near when
the split occurred and he is the guardian of the door. He does not know
what is behind the door, but believes it is a weapon developed by the
Elves just after the split, potentially for use against the Drow??. He
believes bad things will happen if we open the door. There is also an
alternative less well guarded entrance to the area under the river.

While Turf is conversing with the commander the rest of us check out the
rest of the three main levels of the castle (Drow won't let us into the
upper level). Find a secret door from the barracks level that leads to
outside the castle on the river side.

Besieging army starts an assault on castle.

We power up and open the door, a quantity of a very cold substance flow
into the iron chamber (think liquid carbon dioxide) and 5 magical
cold/ice entities shaped like Elves attack they dissolve into the liquid
and reform (say behind a fighter) ... a long combat ... but the ice
entities are defeated

Behind the door is a deep well of the cold liquid, Turf swims down and
finds an Elven female sitting on a birchwood chair "the throne of deep
wood made by [Varenthia](Varenthia_Simbelyn "wikilink")", encased in an
ice like substance which is not ice and is some kind of
preservation/hibernation magic. He manages to free the block containing
her, and both of them get swept out the other, under river, entrance.

The rest of us go up to the barracks and out the secret door to the
river, fly down looking for the ice encased Elven woman and Turf, find
them, regroup on river edge, retreat into the trees (out of scrying
range). Melt the ice, but the elven woman
([Varenthia](Varenthia_Simbelyn "wikilink")) is still under the effect
of "hibernation" type magic. DA: woman is Eleven, college is "ice" and
highest ranked skill is military scientist. Divination and ancient
divination don't work well, her aura is frozen/time stopped/illusionary
in deep past, so cannot get any useful information from it.

Now find ourselves in the direct path of 2000 troops heading to
reinforcements the besieging army, so we move camp to get out of the
way, and hide from their outriders in a small gully.

Precog if anything bad will happen when she wakes up (like killing us
all), seems fine, so we wait for her to wake up. Also request presence
of Delirium and Bakerak to see if they know any more about the eleven
woman, but it will take them some hours to get here. She wakes up before
they arrive and is not helpful or talkative. She uses ice magics to form
a mirror of ice and scrys the battle occurring at the castle. She can
also use reflective puddles of water similarly.

At the castle the besiegers win and gain entrance into the castle, they
set up and execute a mass sacrifice ?200 human men, women and children
in some kind of ritual. There is also an invisible object which the Drow
are walking around. The rest of the troops pull out leaving about 200
Drow in possession of the castle.

## Date: 14/07/806

Morning arrives, Varithia takes her chair and sits in the sunshine and
then just evaporates. Delirium and Bakerak turn up, somewhat late, and
say that Varithia's magic held them back. She obviously did not want to
meet them. Pretty disgusted by what happened at the castle we decide to
go in and try to wreak havoc, we leave the chair with Bakerack and
Delirium at the hidden campsite.

We power up, take a maze to near the castle, sneak in via the secret
door and attack. Combat is fairly brutal. A Drow appears wearing crystal
armour and wants to parley, we do giving them a day to vacate the
castle. They will only hand it over to a priest so we exit the required
one mile, and call the Sassoura by the expedient of flattening "send
priest now" in a grassy meadow. A sending arrives, we discuss, they will
send a group out for the appointed time of exchange. We put a crystalar
vision over the castle but cannot see anything. We do a precog, and see
ourselves surrounded by agents of the besieging army at dawn, so we
move.

## Date: 15/07/806

We meet up with the Sassoura contingent shortly before dawn, headed by
the white priestess we meet at the church in Alabaq. We wait with them
until handover has occurred. Find out from the white priestess that the
ritual slaughter was to cause the death of a certain individual. The
invisible region, was something with an antiscrying "frozen time" type
spell on it. We get permission to check out the castle more fully, they
say fine, except we cannot go into the upper level of the castle.

## Date: 16/07/806

We spend a couple of days but don't find anything useful.

## Date: 17/07/806

We arrange to go and look at a promising manor (in an area suggested as
good by Bakerak and Delirium). Return to Alabaq, takes 5 days, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21.

## Date: 21/07/806

Arrive in the evening. We note that the harbour is full of the besiegers
ships and find out that there is a large price on our heads. Organise
accommodation for the night. Get assigned an imperial courier to show us
the property and we depart.

## Date: 21/07/806 - 05/08/806

Takes two weeks to travel to the manor, which is in a forested region
about 800 miles away from Alabaq. Manor positioned on a bluff and is in
a state of extensive disrepair. We avoid the imperial courier, so we can
chat to Bakerak and Delirium (whom the Drow we hope still don't know
about) and find out that this is fine for them. Arrange payment of
magical items, abilities, fate changes.

# Playing time

Day 1
: 12.00 midday - 5.30 pm 02/06/2006 (no Terry) \[two sessions\]  

Day 2
: 11.00 am - late?? pm 11/06/2006 (everyone) \[three sessions\]  

Day 3
: 11.00 am - 10.00 pm 16/06/2006 (everyone) \[three sessions\]  

Day 4
: 11.00 am - 6.00 pm 01/07/2006 (everyone) \[two sessions\]  


Turf
: 8 sessions

Blitzkrieg
: 10 sessions

Ty Trident
: 10 sessions

Tulip
: 10 sessions

## Game time

Start
: 05/06/806 WK

Finish
: 05/08/806 WK

Time
: 60 days

## Costs

- 2 × 2000sp crystals of vision
- Passage to Ajipar 30sp × 4
- Accommodation Alabaq 30sp night × nights
- 4000sp
- 120sp
- 60sp

Loot and Payments etc

- Birch-wood throne of elven woman
- 2 potion bottles of ice liquid (Blitzkrieg & Tulip)
- Avoid death amulets (Turf & Blitzkrieg)

[Category:Scribe Notes](Category:Scribe_Notes "wikilink")
[Category:London](Category:London "wikilink") [Category:Ross
Alexander](Category:Ross_Alexander "wikilink")
[Category:Kanlaoise](Category:Kanlaoise "wikilink")
