---
title: Return to Kanlaoise
author: Sabastian
date: Winter 818 WK
---

[Scribe Notes](Scribe_Notes#Winter_808_WK "wikilink")\
== Summary == **Adventure**: Return to Kanlaoise\
**GM**: [Ross Alexander](Ross_Alexander "wikilink")\
**Level**: Brave and bold\

# Party

-   [Sabastian](Sabastian "wikilink")
-   [Villa](Villa "wikilink")

Employer
:   [Wu Fang](Wu_Fang "wikilink")

# Scribe notes Summary {#scribe_notes_summary}

The Lord of Blood was imprisoned in a pocket plane some years ago, he
escaped and was killed but the corrupt prison was still connected to the
world. A number of the planes most powerful entities
([Orthostopheles](Orthostopheles "wikilink"),
[Baccarat](Baccarat "wikilink"), [Delerium](Delerium "wikilink"),
[Varenthia Simbelyn](Varenthia_Simbelyn "wikilink") and [Kosiva
Zaorich](Kosiva_Zaorich "wikilink") ) tried to disconnect the prison
from their world, it failed spectacularly. The entities disappeared, the
plane was cut off from all other worlds and all births stopped.

A decade passed.

The short lived races are nearing extinction, the medium lives races
are aged. The tree network has failed and little movement occurs.

Wu Fang managed to establish a connection with Alusia and hires Villa
and Sabastian to investigate. They reestablish the tree network (the
elves were looking at the problem and would have gotten around to it
eventually). The discover a new pocket plane and rescue three of the
missing entities, including the Empress.

# Scribe Notes Full {#scribe_notes_full}

## Wet Noodles {#wet_noodles}

Having received a bowl of wet noodles the Guild gate guards are about to
enjoy a late lunch when the noodles begin moving, forming words. The
inscrutable noodle mage Wu-Fang, is requesting Sabastian to assist with
some problems on Kanlaoise. The disappointed guards deliver the noodles
to Security and a message is soon dispatched to Tobintown. Sabastian
arrives a few days later with Villa.

Later that day the pair spend a few hours following noodle shapes formed
in the bowl and are lead to a wavering magical wall in the middle of a
field. Passing through they appear on lush green fields (the plane
\"Monastery of Ying-Tang\"), the only structure being a building in the
distance. Walking about a quarter of a mile they come upon a beautifully
constructed noodle themed monastery, many people, wearing simple robes,
are working on immaculately cared for gardens. We are expected and are
led to the third floor of the monastery by a young, bald monk. Through
the rooms windows we see dusk over a mountain range, they are powerfully
enchanted portals. Wu-Fang interrupts out investigation of the windows
with bowls of warm noodles, and we eat as he explains the connection
from Kanlaoise to Alusia has been broken for almost a decade, but the
monastery has been able to for a connection to both planes. However,
Wu-Fang must stay in the monastery to maintain the connection.

Wu-Fang explains Kanlaoise has declined over the last decade. The elven
tree portal network that allows instantaneous travel around the plane
has broken down and he would like us to talk to the wood elves and
re-establish it. The population of the world would use these to travel
vast distances, after ten years very little travel occurs, communities
are cut off and very little news travel. If we find Valerie Longmeadow
we should ask her for potions to assist, but the first place we should
visit is Highvale and talk Crimson Rose, the leader of an adventuring
group. Rose took charge of the group two years ago following the death
of her father.

## Return to Kanlaoise {#return_to_kanlaoise}

Having finished a fourth bowl of noodles we rest our full bellies in the
monastery until the view through the windows shows noon. Having borrowed
heavy coats, we pass through the windows to a bitterly cold environment.
Casting wings, and following Wu Fangs directions, we begin our flight to
Highvale, some 30 miles away. While flying we notice a large creature
flying many miles north of us, large enough to possibly be a dragon!
Over time the creature gets closer I think it might be an ice drake, a
creature of the ice queen. During the flight we are also briefly
followed by crows.

As we leave the mountains behind us the terrain changes to verdant
fields, there are significant less crops that Sabastian remember. Both
being poor rangers we follow a paved road winds through the valley and
leads to Highvale. Landing a distance from the main gates we walk into
the town, past the aging orcs manning the gates. A large crow sits on
the gate watching us with its beady eyes -- we suspect it to be a
familiar. Its late afternoon and there are unusually few people about
town, ten years ago the town had a large orc population, but now seems
to be inhabited by mainly humans.

The atmosphere of town appears very subdued there is no fighting or
raucous noise that we would expect to find. We head into the Flayed
Goblin pub and ask about Crimson, they are well known and we are
directed to their house in the east of the city near the walls. A short
walk later we find a well-kept house with sign hanging over the door
advertising the Crimson adventuring group. We are known and introduce
ourselves, and we are lead in to meet Rose Crimson, a strong and assured
woman. She explains she knows Wu-Fang and invites us to relax in the
lounge and have tea. The tree network stopped working 15 years ago and
everyone is interested in getting this working again. She can ensure we
are paid some money if we are successful, around 7000 silver pennies.
The wood elves have the power to re-establish tree network, but their
work at elven speed and everyone else cannot wait decades for them to
complete the work. There are four locations to re-establish the
forests;

* Highvale - here
* Blackstone -- dwarves city
* Longmeadow -- hobbits village
* Saesora -- city of the dead

Rose explains the world has a problem that is far more of a concern, no
one has been born for 20 years - there are no souls available for birth.
The short lived races, like goblins, are in very low numbers. The human
population has been effected the population is aging, and it has become
an financial problem. For years people have worked on the problem but
nothing seems to work, not even virility potions. People are becoming
very averse to risk as the dead cannot be replaced and the majority of
people now avoid travel. Three pots of tea have been drunk while we
talk, mainly by Sabastian. Rose offer us small magical devises that
contain magical charges of \'whispers\', these can be used to send her
messages.

## Much flying {#much_flying}

Leaving Highvale and flying out of the city, we follow the directions
Rose provided and follow the switchbacks down the mountain. Villa
notices we seem to be followed by an ice drake and extremely large crow.
The temperature is far warmer at the lower altitude, its considerably
humid and the air smells of jungle. After some time we land at the Iron
Fist Inn, made up of a dozen well maintained small buildings. A number
of merchant caravans appear to be stabled here. The crow lands at the
Inn with us and invites us to visit his tower, some 300 miles away, as
his boss \"Eyebite\" would like to talk to us. We make vague commitments
and race inside. Hiring a room for a month we retire to make plans, both
of us are city folk and have little experience with maps, so we talk for
some time before agreeing upon a route -- is will be about 1,200 miles
to the wood elves.

Sleep in until late morning and have a long breakfast, Sabastian eats
four, before departing on wings -- in the wrong direction. We fly for a
few hours to mislead the ice drake, and anyone else, trailing us.
Landing we hide under trees we rune portal back to our room at the Iron
Fist Inn, hoping to confuse anyone following us. We arrive late in the
evening, as the rune portal proved difficult to create, and have a late
dinner (three for Sabastian). We head out again when it is dark to
further confuse followers, unfortunately a storm blows in and we get
lost for many hours. When the storm exhausts itself and we spot some
town lights to navigate by.

## Not so sunny Elves {#not_so_sunny_elves}

A morning light breaks and we find ourselves over a river valley, two
rivers intersect and run beside a large road, what we following to a
city. We land, cold and exhausted, and Villa bruises himself. The gates
of the city are guarded by Sun elves and there are as arrogant as
Sabastian remembers. We have found Sernoyia, our destination, and are
warned we must register by noon. We find a nice looking Inn near a
surprisingly quite street market, we are so exhausted we don\'t argue
the extra charge for hobbits.

Awaking at noon we enjoy a lunch of bread, cheese and tropical fruit
before heading into the city to register. Sernoyia is bisected by the
river and there appears to has been significant high quality
construction over the last few decades, with tunnels built under the
river. The population appears to be predominantly humans but is run by
Sun Elves, which make up about Â¼ of the population. With passage booked
on a boat to Er\'ab the remainder of the day passes quietly.

The evening we take dinner at a fancy establishment, but our meal is
interrupted as a group of sun elves turn up for dinner, the four men in
white plate and two immaculate dresses women. The entire restaurant
quietens and there appears to be a palpable tension in the room. Not
wanting trouble we slip away and return to our inn. Feeling paranoid we
slip out our rooms window, three stories up and sneak to the docks and
spend the remainder of the night hiding there.

## Travelling again {#travelling_again}

The next morning we are the first passengers to board the boat early and
we wait nervously for departure. Sabastian\'s still manages to eat five
breakfasts. A beautiful but stern looking sun elf, dresses in black
silks, boards the boat just prior from departure. She has no military
escort, which is unusual. We hide behind some barrels on deck, hoping to
be unseen. The boat departs mid morning and we settle back as the 300
miles journey will take some days. The journey should be uneventful as
the river passes through mostly cultivated lands.

Around lunch time the expected confrontation occurs, the Sun elf accosts
us and demands to know when we are doing in their lands. Other
passengers quickly more away. She explains it has been almost 20 years
since Alusians visited this world, just before all planar travel was cut
off, and the \'trouble\' started. Explaining we are here to re-establish
the forest network she becomes surprisingly friendly and shares much;

* The souls of the world are not being recycled, they are not reaching
their goddess to be reborn.
* A number of the most powerful people in the world are missing,
including the Empress and Metastopheles. They were all collaborating on
a secret project.
* Access to other planes was cut off. The only accessible place is a
pocket \"plane\" called Cormelle, which this is an astral artefact. It
can be accessed via the garden in Mazerathin. The Sun elves don\'t visit
there are its outside their influence.

This all happened about a year after the Lord of Blood was banished from
the world. They desperately need to know why this has happened, and
often significant sums of money if we can provide any information. She
explains the Church of Shahdad won\'t give direct assistance but will
ensure we are not interfered with by their agents. We are left surprise
and puzzled, she spoke with significant authorise and must be high
ranking in the Sun Elven hierarchy. We never did learn her name.

## Er\'ab Ahoy {#erab_ahoy}

Four days later we arrive in Er\'ab, it\'s a large town, but not
particulate active, many of the buildings require minor repairs. Food in
the town is plentiful and we enjoy the new menu. Sabastian eats
heartily, the larder is restocked before we departing on wings. Not
being natural rangers we follow the river and head west for a number of
days before turning south fly over an ancient forest. We land at a small
glade, near where the river has become a waterfall. An elderly wood elf
relaxing on the soft moss on the riverbank, lazily fishing. We think he
has let us seem him, he is a master of hiding. We approach him and sit
on the rock, enjoying the forest tranquillity, and quietly introduce
ourselves. He explains word of our arrival reached the wood elves and he
is waiting here for us, ready to assist.

We take of our shoes and packs, sit back and talk. We hear the same
story - no tree network, no more births and an isolation world due to
peoples preservation instinct. The Elves believe things will break down
quickly once humans and orcs die off. None of the elder races have faces
any losses, but the short lived races, like the goblins, are almost
gone. The wood elves have created seeding forests and would like us to
take them throughout the world to regrow the network, as our lives are
fleeting and we will act quicker than them. We eventually fall asleep in
the sun, only to be awoken when the Elf has finished fishing, he leads
us through the forest for a short time and we find ourselves magically
transported to and arrive outside Mazerathin. The big city Mazarathin is
a large and congested city, the bulk of the city is one a central
island, connected to smaller islands by bridges. A canal runs around the
edge of the island and a number of smaller islands, which are all
connected by bridges. The central island is mostly a large hill where
the Temple of Light and Imperial Palace reside at its crown. Wandering
through the city the people all seem to be old humans with elderly orc
servants, the city lacks the hard edge it used to have.

We wander the city, wandering for a few hours as Sabastian tries to
remember where Orthostopheles lives. The houses gardens are immaculate,
as always, and the house well maintained. The elderly butler that opens
the door remembers Sabastian, and invites us in for tea. He sits with us
and explains Orthostopheles went missing more than ten years ago, he and
the cook have spent the last decade maintaining the house awaiting his
return and they are pleased to have some friendly visitors. He suggests
we search the study, our trained eyes may see something. We turn up some
notes that were hidden, these make no sense to us and the butler offers
to visit the library to some research and see if he can discern their
meaning.

The following morning we eat a wonderful breakfast. Cook is elderly and
very skilled. She is pleased to have guests and happily cooks Sabastian
multiple breakfasts. Following Butler\'s advice we head to the dwarven
enclave later that that morning, it\'s a hot morning and we walk across
a few bridges and pass stalls run by a multitude of races. We are
slipped a note on our morning walk, the wood elves have the forests
ready for us. Arriving at the enclave we sit in the food hall and talk
to various folk, we learn many things;

* A 20ft tall goblin is in mountains giving people grief. People want
it gone but no one brave enough to deal with it, avoid the area. It is
around Goblin Town.
* Even the ogres are polite these days. No young ogres to take their
place.
* Nomads in the sands have completely closed off contact, no one heard
from them for a while.
* None sure about what has happened. Maybe Longmeadow (hobbit) or Iron
Grimmer (Dwarf) \[dead for thousands of years -- talk to him memories
via his throne. Throne by old ruins. N of Highvale, by the big
mountains.\] could help.
* There is little raiding from the mountain, most bandits gone
straight
* Stonewrights are living at the southern end of the mountains, near to
Highvale. It is rumoured there are a dozen clans living there now.

## Imperial visit {#imperial_visit}

Following a long lunch we head to the lakeshore and visit the Star Elven
garden. A Star elven guard pass us word that the regent, Karasova
Lethlil is looking for us. Sabastian snacks on a wheel of cheese as we
head up to the palace. You don't keep Karasova waiting.

It's a steep walk up the hill to the palace and we arrive a little
exhausted, but we are rewarded by a magnificent view of the lake. The
palace guards are waiting for us and lead us through a maze of
corridors to a chamber, and we are greeted by a cold stare. Karasova
is seated at a desk enjoying some delicate pastries. There are no
niceties and between bites she explains the Coronation, almost 20
years ago, was followed by a time of peace. The empress, Kosiva
Zaorich, used that time to investigate what she had inherited, and
amongst the artefacts in the bowels of the palace one that allows
people to ascend to true immortality and become a member of the higher
realm. The artefact was linked to the Lord of Blood's prison, and many
of the powerful member of the plane investigated, then
disappeared. Soon after all the problems occurred.

Karasova runs the government, without ruling it, and if everything was
going smoothly no one would object. Things are not going smoothly. The
Church of Shahdad want someone to ascend to replace their missing
goddess, they will recreate (rather than recover) Shahdad. They hope
this will returns the cycle of birth and death. To achieve this they
need various artefacts, most of which they don't yet have.

It is believed by many the Gate in the garden is a key to all the
missing individuals, as it connects to Cormelle and that in turn
connects to the Blood Lord's prison. Karasova will soon be departing
the capital to deal with political issues, but if we need to contact
her leave a note with Orthostopheles' butler. We are ordered to
investigate and resolve the issues.

## Star Gates {#star_gates}

We quickly leave the palace and head down to the Star Elven garden to
view the Gate. The gates are made up of a web of filaments, woven
around gems. There are tiny patches of colours in the gate (red, blue
and white) which appear to by tiny, incredibly detailed structures. It
is masterpiece and clearly very magical.

We divine the gates and its revealed they represent the Night\'s Sky,
and can be used to travel to the Astral -- but this feature is not
working. On a hunch, Sabastian reads the nights skies on the gems in the
gate, they tell us \"Many lives await return beyond these gates.\". On
this success we make astrology readings via the Gate.

Q
: Where is Orthostopheles?

A
: Parky knows best.

Q
: Where is Parky

A
: Parky is currently not available.

We are confused by the answers, and we head back to Orthostopheles\'
house for an early dinner and consider our next steps. Butler has not
returned, but Cook has biscuits and tea, which are amazing as always.
About an hour later Butler returns and explains Orthostopheles\' notes
lead to books about the interaction between the celestial and elemental
planes -- particularly the plane of cold. More information, but we
aren\'t sure what to make of it. That night Villa uses a dream amulet to
visit the gate - it glows white and he passes through briefly passing
through he sees a bridge that leads to an icy, lifeless realm.

### Adventure with friends {#adventure_with_friends}

The next morning, following another large breakfast of eggs and ham, we
head down to the forest to take delivery of the forest seeds. An
enigmatic wood elf is waiting for us with four circular planter boxes,
each is about a foot deep and a few feet wide. They appear to contain
miniature forests. Being too large to carry, and too magical to move
with magic, we head back to the dwarven enclave and put out word we are
looking for assistance on a great adventure, finding a number recruits.
Two older dwarves chaperon a large mix of young hobbits and dwarves who
are looking to get out of the boring city.

A few hours later, following what seem overly complicated uses of carts,
we find ourselves on a boat headed to Saesora with our newly found
allies, and a number of stern looking priestesses. Following a few
relaxing days of fishing and sharing stories of adventures with the
young dwarves, we dock at Saesora in the morning, it\'s a large town,
built a very long time on a hill in an ancient elven style.

A very old Sun Elves are awaiting us, their hair bleached white, who
appears to be a local priest. We explain we have a new forest, the
priest seems unsurprised and leads us to glade, a walled area about Â¼
the size of the town, which is full of dead trees -- all black and
withered. We plant the glade and, not knowing what will happen, flee as
we get a feeling anyone staying in the glade too long won\'t leave.

The boat won\'t depart until the evening so we spend the day being given
a (boring) tour of the town by the priests. The young folk are amazed by
it all. We ask the priests about the missing souls and they believe
souls of the departed pass through the gate to the ice realm. They think
Parky is a human word, but doesn\'t know who or what it represents.
Following a short dinner (not enough food) we board the ship and depart.
Three days back to Mazarathin and fortuitously find a boat that will
depart for K\'Resh the next morning.

Staying overnight at Orthostopheles, Butler lets us know there are now
a great deal of Church priests visiting the library. He has asked around
and the rumour is all the planar gates shut down at the same time, which
is about the time everyone disappeared. Two immortals, Delirium and
Baccarat, went missing at the same time.

The next morning we depart, with our dwarven and hobbit friends, on a
large sailing ship. We travel the coast rapidly covering 1000 miles in
three days, passing Meloran (known for its high-end crafting, metal
working and agriculture) we dock on the south coast of Kresh. It is a
rundown town containing mostly orcs and humans. We talk to some local
dwarven merchants whom direct us to their elders in the mountains.

The following day Sebastian creates a rune portal near the docks and
then he and Villa fly to Blackstone Peak, a dwarven city located in the
mountaintop. After a few wrong directions we land on a mountain road and
walk to the city. The city is efficient constructed but appears to have
been built in a rush, it lacks the beauty normally seen in dwarven
construction. Introducing ourselves and are eventually taken to Daren
Longbeard Shortbeard (there was accident) who leads us to the ancient
dwarves that rules the city. Sabastian happily discusses stone,
machinery and smithing for a few hours (Villa falls asleep) and we learn
the markets have changed considerably over the last ten years as the
demand from the goblins and orcs has disappeared. Discussion eventually
moves to the forest and the elders are please about developments, the
Dwarven Council will need to meet to decide where to place the forest --
this will require some consideration and will take some months. We agree
to move the miniature forest to the Blackstone and leave it in their
hands, this will take almost a week as it cannot be transported with
magic. We learn the Ice elves have not been seen for 10 years, maybe
their queen is also missing?

Almost a week later we are boarding at boat to Highvale. A few of the
young hobbits take a liking to Blackstone and have decide to stay and
become gardeners there.

## Highvale High jinks {#highvale_high_jinks}

Departing K\'Resh we spend an uneventful and relaxing 10 days sailing to
Nafa. Sabastian get bored and whittles figurines for almost everyone on
the boat.

Arriving in Nafa the group are lucky enough to join a merchant train
heading to Highvale. It\'s a slow but uneventful climb high into the
mountain, the temperature drops as we approach HIghvale. its . The group
arrive andsettle into an inn we meet a contingent of imperial rangers,
the young hobbit and dwarves spend the evening exploring the taverns of
the city.

The next day the majority of the group spend nursing hangovers. In the
afternoon am orc guard turns up to escort Sabastian and Villa to meeting
the boss, Sechan Silverhands. He heartily greats the two and, over
drinks, explains the city is no longer the chaotic hard bitten place
that it was. With no new births the inhabitants have become more
cautious and the inability to travel far has forced people to settle
down. He directs us to the Crimson hobbit, a mercenary group, who will
escort us into the forest tomorrow. We decide to head to see them that
evening, with the young hobbits, and another evening of revelries takes
place.

The next morning Rose Crimson, leader of the mercenary band, leads us
into the woodlands, a few miles from the city. The trees in the forest
are struggling to grow and the air has a slight hit of decay. The forest
seedling is planted and, watching from afar, we see it grow to a full
forest within an hour. The entire area appears transformed, the air is
fresh and the atmosphere of the entire area changes -- there is a
feeling of growth and health pervading the area.

While waiting we notice a large raven watching us. Eyebite is, or was,
the familiar of Morgan the Gray. While mocking us he explains Morgan has
been gone (but nor dead) for some time and he has turned the tower
turned into a rookie. The Ice Queen disappeared about the same time as
everyone else. A horrible goblin monster, one of Bloods\' old creatures,
is marching around the remains of the old Orge Town. The crows at
Longmeadow can direct us there. We also learn some gossip about the
Church, concerning if it is true. Returning to town we have a very
raucous dinner to celebrate the new forest, much food is eaten and tales
are told.

## Interlude

The following morning the group bid Rose and her band goodbye. Blossom
(the hobbit housekeeper) escorts a very delicate rabble on their journey
back to the ship. While walking an ice drake menacingly flying toward
the group, its flight is suddenly disrupted as a silver shimmer rockets
past the drake toward the group. The shimmer lands and turns into a
giggling teenage girl, Parastopheles - the passage of time has aged her
little. She, as always, seems very distracted, but seems to have
business with Rose. After a short conversation Parastopheles changes to
her silver dragon form and flies off with Blossom on her back.

The ice drake angrily circles us until Parastopheles departs, and lands,
blocking out path. An obnoxious ice elf dismounts, glaring at us. News
of our presence on the plane has spread. She explains Varenthia, the Ice
queen is missing. She was not part of the Empress plans to ascend, the
other powerful people present were just interested in the higher plane.
The group discovered there still a connection to the Lord of Blood\'s
prison. During the ritual something happened that disconnected this
plane from the Astral, Varenthia interceded to tie this connection to
somewhere, she disappeared.

We are given a frozen ice spider and commanded to use it send a message
if we uncover any news of their queen. She knows we may need to travel
high into the mountains or through the gate and offers to make us
protective armour in exchange for shoes and dresses from the Sweptsands
people.

The group heads back to Highvale to plot their next move, and find
Parastopheles and Blossom eating scones. Parastopheles offers to fly us
to the desert the next day, so we spend the remainder of the day
relaxing. Our evening is interrupted when an eagle landing on our table,
depositing a scroll. The scroll explains the Sweptsands \"Prophet\" is
aware of our imminent arrival and there are some time she would like us
to bring to the desert. A busy night of shopping ensues, with us
overpaying for items given the short notice.

The next morning Parastopheles flys us at exilerating high speed to the
Sweptsands - forests, streams and valleys blurring past. In a few hours
we find ourselves hundreds of miles away, eventually arriving at the
desert and land at an oasis. There are a great number of tents erected
there, populated by a few hundred people -- the largest population of
nomads than any of us have ever seen. A large fire pit is located at the
centre of the tents, surrounded by old wooden benches.

A small number of tribespeople are awaiting us, we were expected, and
they lead us through the maze of tents and we sit at a small fire. We
are introduced to the Crone, an elderly lady with weathered tan skin
dressed in a simple robe. She greets us with a smile and tells us the
cards suggest we would soon visit. She explains she is not the leader,
but senior member of the group, she stays out of silly politics that
take place, the bigger picture is more important.

The Crone explains there are things she cannot tell us at the moment
about the issue with the souls, she must travel and consult (with who?)
and this will take a while. When people die the souls should be
collected by the god, Shahdad, cleansed and returned to the world in a
birth - instead they are leaving this plane. The Church has the ability
to hold souls and potentially rebirth them, but it is not an easy task
(they must be present at death, must have phylactery to hold the soul
and will need to be judged). Souls will hold to their memories but come
back weaker, if this happens often they potential suffer from memories
of past lives. Its likely they will store the souls of important people,
rather than rebirth them. Keeping souls is necromancy and runs counter
to the churches own teaching. If they do it, it will be very limited.

There is an wiccan way to rebirth soul with all its memories. Is a
hazardous process as the vessel will simply die of shock if not prepared
correctly and the soul is lost. This is not done without extreme
justification. All her readings say these dire events on the plane are
to do with the stars. She has watched the spirits depart and they always
fly west. Their people rarely travel out of the desert, normally using
the nomads as the intermediaries.

The nomads would like a forest here, and we agree to make a request to
the Wood elves on their behalf. It would be easier to convince the
nomads to help us resolve the problems of the plane if we were seen to
be offering this tree network, an offer would flatter the egos of the
isolationists. On a lighter note, we change the conversation to the
desert spider silk and the Crone quickly agreed to a trade with the
goods we brought, the ones the Crone ordered.

The next day we return to Highvale and Sabastian borrows equipment to
made dresses and shoes. The silk is breath taking, exceptionally light
and coloured with iridescent shades. A few days later an orc guard turns
up at the door with white bags, a delivery from us from the white one
(Ice Elf). Sabastian examines the armour -- it is made by an experienced
hand. What is interesting is the material - white, hard ice crystal. The
Plate armour that is chill to touch and slightly heavier than normal
plate.

## Longmeadow

Next day we give their goodbyes and depart for Longmeadow. The day of
flying passes without incident, the temperature is very cold as we cross
the mountains peak around midnight but the ice armour keeps them warm.
As the light breaks the two complete their descent into the valley and
land, the sun has yet to complete rising and the twinkle of town lights
can be seen in the fog.

Longmeadow is built in an orderly hobbit fashion in the side of a
foothill. Quaint gardens and winding roads cover the area. We walk into
the village and encounter some sleep guards, who wake up long enough to
provide us space in the front room of a guard house to sleep.

We awake in the afternoon to the noise of much activity, a featival has
been organised to celebrate our arrival. Pavilions have been erected by
the lake and a few hundred hobbits are relaxing and eating, it appears
that the entire village has used this as excuse for a day off. We join
the fun and spend the afternoon eating and telling tales of our
exploits. Sabastian impresses the inhabitants with his ability -- and
that\'s a feat with hobbits. That evening we use our magics for to
entertain the crowds.

That evening we finally catches up with Valerie, the town leader, and
eat a bit more as we exchange tales of the last decade. The old grove is
very sick, and the towns herbalists are unable to heal it. The good news
is some adventurers and the elves have got rid of the nasty goblins.
Unfortunately Ogre Town, and its miles of mines, is all icky and nasty -
all corrupted and full of putrid mushrooms and giant maggots. As travel
will soon be possible she will spread the word and look for adventurers.
Morgan the Grey has been missing for years, he tried a reincarnation
with his master and it went wrong -- Eyebite has become very powerful
and is an avatar of some sort in his absence. They have tried for years
to resolve the birth problem with powerful herbalist and wiccan potions,
however they have found no solutions. Valerie explains the festival will
lasts for a few days, there have been few visitors to the valley for a
decade and all the town inhabitants are very excited. . She will take us
to the old grove tomorrow, about 10 miles down the valley. She has used
her dust and potions of blessings to keep the forest going. After a long
day of carousing we sleep in an unused inn, it has been opened for our
crew and been given an emergency clean.

The next morning awoken with breakfast and eat heartily before meeting
Valerie and heading into forest. She the goblins broke into one of the
Lord of Blood\'s abandoned laboratories and drank potions which made one
of them very large. Much chaos followed and it was eventually killed by
the elves and an adventuring party. No-one goes to Ogre Town now as its
too dangerous.

We walk into the countryside carrying the forest planter, passing lush
fields and large livestock (all clearly blessed), we are lead to the
centre of a tired and lifeless forest. We unpack and plant the forest
and watch the forest transform, its quickly becomes lush and full of
life. The air seems clearer and animals seem to be moving around the
forest. Valerie is delighted with the result and sit down to read her
cards.

Arriving back at Longmeadow we head to Valeries house for lunch, she has
the largest herb garden we have ever seen, and Sabastian appetite is
finally sated. Valerie provide herbs, Sabastians will make him full and
Villas will make wine taste nice.

After lunch, and a short nap, the group ride Valerie carpet to the
goblin cave. The trees in the area are sickly and the air reeking of
rotting vegetation. The rough cave entrance is surrounds by white bio
luminance. Sending a wizard eye down the cave all we see is sickly and
rotten vegetation. We purge the area with meteorite shower and walls of
light but decide against going into the cave.

Over dinner the Dwarves announce they have made a decision, they are
excited to be in the countryside and want to settle in. They have
already talked to the hobbits about building a tavern and forge. There
is much eating and drinking to celebrate!

In late evening magical investigating takes place; Valerie performs a
card reading that evening, Sabastian reads Night\' Sky, and Villa reads
his dreams. We learn \"where the skies are void is where we need to
be\", feel drawing of coldness of the void - Essence of Dark Celestial.

Over a bottle of port politics are discussed - Valerie explains she has
met the Ice Queen. She was happy to stay out of politics, she was
technically the queen of all elves from millennia ago -- before her big
sleep, but not fully recognised. Given the disaster she chose to act,
but given the ice elves don\'t play well with other they have not made
much headway into solving what has happened, and don\'t have any allies
helping them. Valerie gives us a set of cards that we can use to divine
things.

## Back to the start {#back_to_the_start}

A day later Sabastian and Vila wave goodbye to Longmeadow travel to
Mazarathin through the newly established Forest network. We head to
Orthostopheles house to catch up with all the local news and eat
heartily. Our arrival on the plane and activities has caused some
friction between powers. Those that should be doing things more
productive are staying out of town or running around smoothing feathers.
Once things settle back down the Butler may be able to find out more.


The Butler agrees to let Sabastian and Villa search Orthostopheles
study. The study is a small room but bursting at the seams, its fully
with books, scrolls and various nick-nacks. After some very methodical
searching they discover a finely crafted tobacco box, which Sabastian
made for Orthostopheles over a decade ago, and discovered a playing card
is stuffed into the box and stopping the lid from closing. Examining the
card is appears to be a Joker, with an aura of animation. It gives a
smile and wink they flips out of Sabastians hands, flipping to the wall
and slides down. Examining the wall we find a long, thin portal. Picking
up the Joker we turn sideways, and are \'flattened\' as we slip through
the gateway in the wall.

Finding ourselves in a familiar looking maze (Deliriums making?) we walk
for some time and find ourselves in a huge columned room with vaulted
ceilings. Light globes hanging off the ceiling and soft diffused light
radiates through the room. The room is full of items that we cant make
out as they are slightly out of phase with us, the Joker leads us to a
prominent True Silver pentagram in the middle of the room. The pentagram
is some sort of circle of protection, upon entering it we both feel as
if we are under and enormously powerful purification and, to our
surprise, and a two dimensional Joker steps out of the card. The Joker
is a friendly fellow and dressed in a chequered costume , he explains
Baccarat made several Jokers (always worth having a joker up your
sleeve) and the fact that were talking to him shows something has gone
wrong. He has been in storage and doesn\'t know whats happened to
Orthostopheles, but had been briefed on history - he knew the Lord of
Blood\'s prison was connected to the Tower Forever in Cormelle and when
it was banished it was assumed the prison was banished into the far
void, but it turns out it wasn\'t detached so they were attempting to
either (1) detach the prison from Cormelle or (2) detach Cormelle from
Kanlaiose.

There is another Joker out there (they come in pairs) which we will need
to find as he will soon be played out and disappear. The Joker wants us
to help his master and will accompany us until he disappears. There is
nothing else in the room we can interact with, apparently only the
Empress can get stuff from this room. We purify, it will last for a
month with double ranks. We leave the hidden room and the butler
explains we were in the room for 6 hours. Villa casts locate on the
other Joker, while we await lunch, and gets a response, very tenuous.



### Jokers wild {#jokers_wild}

The next morning, following a hearty breakfast, we following Villas
locate. The Joker card is within about Â½ mile and appears to be through
the celestial gates. Heading back to don our ice armour we return and
head through into the unknown. Pushing the gates and walking through we
find ourselves in an ornate rock garden that radiates the feeling of
life. Small ponds in the gardens radiate starlight. A bridge leads away
from the garden into mist, we follow the location spell over the bridge.
And it leads to a wooden pier that is 300 ft from a beach. The sun has
risen high in the sky and its almost midday and I find it incredibly
difficulties in drawing celestial magic.


Walking down the pier to the beach we find it very busy with a strange
collection of people. Most of them are human, but it also contains an
occasional odd race (goblins etc), they are all dressed in an antiquated
style of beachwear. Most of the peoples auras are \"living\", but is an
unusual way - we suspect these are the souls that cannot return. An
elder lady walking the beach is selling tea and scones, which we readily
eat.


The locate leads us through a gate on the edge of the beach, passing
through we find ourselves in a garden, the noon sun has disappeared and
it appears to be early morning. We spend some time wandering through
what appears to an enormous gardens (10-15 miles around), the grounds
are beautiful and appear to be cultivated to look wild. Large rabbits
(hobbit sized) wearing well-tailored clothes are wandering throughout
the gardens. We some of them recall seeing the missing people but it has
been some time since they saw them.


We spend hours walking through the gardens through its winding paths and
toward evening make it to a town that is surrounded by a brick wall with
a set of open heavy iron gate. The bustling streets of the town are
well-lit by braziers and the buildings up four stories tall in places. A
ubiquitous smell of coal smoke fills the air. We spend hours exploring
the town, and eventually find ourselves in an unnaturally large piazza,
about a miles across. At the centre is a tower, which is unnaturally
tall and its sides disappear into the clouds. Long stairs (40ft long)
descent from the tower to the piazza. The entire area is pitch black,
only illuminated by lights at the base of the tower. The temperature in
the area is brutally cold, but the ice armour is protecting us.


Moving closer to the tower we see hundreds of shadowy figures near the
base, we examine a few auras from a distance and they appear to be
greater undead from the Elemental Plane of Ice. A set of large doors are
at the base of the tower and, after some discussion Villa, sneaks
through the crowd and as Im not a good sneak, fly in. I land by the
doors and scuttles through (taking a few draining blows), the foyer of
the tower smells of rot and decay, ruins papers and broken furniture are
scattered around the area. A wave of fey magic whips up bags and debris
and start blowing me around. Fortunately the greater undead will not
enter the tower, so a few cases of meteorite showers and clears the area
for Villa\'s sneaking.



### Tower Madness {#tower_madness}

There are three exits from the foyer, two are locked and the third is an
elevator. Unlocking the first we find a stairwell leading down, but its
filled unpassable as its blocked with rubbish. The other locked door
leads to a well-used stair well and we head up. The stairwell is cold,
the air smells nasty and nasty feeling permeates the area. We only
manage to climb three floors before we are stopped by another blockage.
A wizard eye doesn\'t penetrate the walls.


Exiting the star well to the third floor we are drawn to the sound of
loud bearing music and find a bar that is filled with people, smoking
and music. Pushing our way into the room we have to shout to hear each
other over the music, the room reeks of stale smoke and beer. Making a
circuit of the bar we find no one can understand us. The Joker, nestled
in my pocket, pull him toward a table of old ladies playing cards. We
try to make some conversation (we don\'t have to shout for some reason)
but they\'re rude and grumpy, so we buy them some sherry to get them
onside. We notice a card slipping around the deck of card (perhaps
another Joker?) they are playing with, we offer to buy the cards from
the ladies but they can\'t agree and start arguing. While they are
distracted we manage to steal a number of \'active\' cards in the deck
(6), they seem to almost leap into our hands. We try to depart but find
the crowd seems to be blocking us, we cant get out of the corner table
we are in regardless of what reasonable actions we try.


Our patient is running low so Villa makes us invisible and Sabastian
lobs a lightning bolt traps into the crowd, which quickly trigger. Bolts
bounces off the roof and hits the many inhabitants and the bottles
behind the bar, causing the spirits to start burning. Chaos ensues and
the crowd stampede out of the room. The remaining cards of the deck are
\'recovered\' before we escape.


The cards are wriggle around and seem to want to leave tower, so we
sneak past the undead and head back towards into the town. It seems like
five hours since we entered to tower, it is now well after midnight. We
pull out the Joker and he excitedly explains he has spoken to the other
cards and there are five \'alive\' cards that match the missing people
that are trapped in this world. This world has been extended and they
are trapped in these extensions. Trumps are not smart, unlike the
Jokers.


* Harlequin -- Delirium - can get from this town
* Drake -- Orthostopheles - can get from this town
* Ruler -- Kosiva
* Queen -- Ice queen
* Gamer -- fates? Looks like a knave. (Jack of spades). Extension not
in this area.

Taking the Harlequin and Drake Card, we examine them closely we -- the
images don\'t move but we feel a pull from them. Following the cards we
find ourselves at a large gatehouse, there are six guards, in heavily
armour guarding a large iron gate. There are small field weapons
pointing at the gate(?). The guards are bored and pleased to have
someone to talk with. The guards explain there is trouble in \'the\'
kingdom (through the gate?), there was a palace coup some time ago and
there has been a civil war going on for some time. Rumours are rife that
are dragons are involved, and knights occasionally come through the gate
on a recruiting drive.

The gates closed at night to stop the undead coming though. We rest by
the gate house, exchanging tales and playing card with the guards, and
await sunrise. We guards open the gates and happily let us through but
remind the rules are firm about letting us back in -- only during the
day.


## Brave new world {#brave_new_world}

The tug of the cards are pull us to the Star gates and we convince the
guards to allow us to pass. Moving through we feel a magical
transitioning and find ourselves on a wide open field that has a road
running beside it. It\'s close to midnight and overcast but not
particularly cold, however we have a feeling of desolation and
abandonment. Through the breaks in the clouds we don\'t recognise any of
the stars.



After following the road for about a quarter of a mile we sight some dim
lights on a rise, the Card tug us in that direction so we follow. The
rise is a small hill covered in battlements, the air holds the slight
smell of old ash and the walls are sooty and scarred with the gates
heavily battered. A burnt-out town sits on a road beside the hill, it
appears a serious fire has ripped through the town and only ten
households still standing. Nothing appears to be growing here, the town
reeks of death.

The road works its way around base of the hill to the battlements.
Climbing the hill and sneaking past the battlements (not difficult when
we are invisible) we find a fortified and what looks to be permanent
encampment has been built. Torches surrounding the camps and we can see
two knights in full armour on guard. Maybe 50-70 horses are tied in the
centre of the camp. The Heraldry on many of the buildings is a Crown
above Dove holding Sword.

Deciding not to tempt fate we sneak out of the campsite and, after
making some distance we take to the air and spend many hours flying the
card. The barren fields and abandoned farmland eventually turn into
cultivated lands, the ground around the river valleys are misty and the
forests appear well grown. As dawn approaches the ground changes to
tended, ordered fields. A keep appears in the distance through the mist
so we decided to land near a road and walk in. Having flown all night we
are exhausted and after a short walk manage to obtain a ride on a cart
driven by old man , we share the ride with sacks of charcoal and a
sleeping child.

## The Keep {#the_keep}

The keep is surrounded by a town, the building are well made and
encircled by a low wooden wall. We arrive just after dawn and the guards
allow the cart to pass through, a few people are up and setting up
stalls in a town square.

Feeling hungry we thank the old man and flip him a silver, then eagerly
buy freshly baked bread and a soft cheese. Sabastian eats him body
weight in food we talk to the stall owners, they lament the war that has
dragged on for years and appears to have ground to a stalemate. The
ruler is incapacitated, and no one has seen or heard from the queen for
many year, they are far from the capital and the queen hasn\'t ventured
this distance for a decade. The knights are still fighting hard, but the
toll on the land has been hard -- the lands have been destroyed by the
ravaging of the drakes. Although a good summer is expected the horses
are in short supply as the knights taken them all.

We resting in the morning sun to digesting our breakfast and watch the
market activities. In the late morning some knights lead a wagon train
from the keep. The wagons hold young people wearing monk\'s habits.
After the people make offerings to the monks the wagons return to the
keep, and we discreetly make ourselves invisible follow them in. The
keep is large and with exceptionally well made granite walls -- we
suspect magic is involved. Following the card, we sneak through the keep
and are lead to the basement -- where we find a snoozing dragon --
Orthostopheles.

## Old Friends {#old_friends}

Sabastian excitedly runs to Orthostopheles, yelling at him until he
awakes. Orthostopheles is surprised, and very pleased to see us. He
explains he and the other powerful entities had identified the Blood\'s
prison was connected to the pocket plan (Cormelle) and was corrupting
it. They tried to remove the connection, and corruption, but things went
disastrously wrong -- each of them had escape methods ready, but they
did not work as expected. He and Delirium used her magical maze to
escape -- they were ripped apart, he hasn\'t seen her since.

The Salamnic Knights found him in the basement 10 years ago, and
recognised him as a powerful ally. He has shared his wisdom with the
Knights and aided them fighting against a necromancer, we have arrived
at an opportune time, as there is a major offensive is due soon. He
believes he is trapped on this world until the corruption poisoning this
world can be removed, but he thinks he was sent to the Keep for a
reason - however as there is little magic in this world there is little
for him to work with. The good news is, after a decade of pondering the
accident, he knows what went wrong and has a plan to remove the
corruption from Cormelle and free its connection from the Lord of
Blood\'s prison.


As we are among friends we reveal ourselves to the guards, who quickly
call the commanders;

-   Lord Horowitz, Knight Salamnic; War against evil red drakes has laid
    waste over the last decade (when Orthostopheles appeared). They are
    known racial enemy of gold and silver dragons.
-   Elven lady -- Lady Katarey. Few elves exist in the world, they know
    of the town we came from and it is another plane -- the gate to the
    town has always existed. The Elves cannot get through.


We discuss plans to release Orthostopheles, and settle on using Rune
portals. They commanders know powerful people can created gates, but
they have not heard of rune portals, but will provide what assistance
they can.

Lord Horowitz is a man of focus and leaves us to get on with things.
Once departed Lady Katarey explains Horowitz is a focused and drive man,
he can appear difficult but has the survival of the kingdom on his
shoulders. He feels the ultimate threat is from within, the court and
nobility are bickering and fighting for personal power and failed both
the Knights and the people. The Knights may be required to cleanse the
state of corruption and take the reins of leadership. We must be careful
or we will be swept up in his plans. Lady Katarey and her kindred are
working quietly behind the scenes and may be able to offer assistance.


## Release

Left to his own devises, Sabastian examines the stone work of the castle
and concludes the stone isn\'t magical, but exceptionally well made. It
would be very difficult to pull apart we decide to try Rune Portals. It
is exceptionally difficult to cast in the basement (-50%) and it takes
many hours of frustration the runes are created. After a long meal we
head into the countryside , following a number of experiments we learn
it becomes easier to cast as we move away from the population; hard in
the town, easier on the road and only in the wilderness do we suffer no
difficulties.


Finding a quiet dell and we create the second part of the portal, which
takes some time. Returning to the basement, Sabastian spends many hours
trying and eventually portals out. Free for the first time in 10 years,
Orthostopheles stretches his wings and breaths deep of the fresh forest
air, he draws mana and lets out a satisfied sigh. We show Orthostopheles
the cards and he can detect a small tug from the Harlequin card and a
fainter one from the Ruler. He seems to be resisting his own magic and
can\'t change to human form.



### Lunch and learning {#lunch_and_learning}

While Orthostopheles stretches his wing while we look around the
countryside. A range of low mountains lies to the east, about 5 miles
away, and through a spy glasses we see some shapes. Using a crystal we
make out ring of stones. Orthostopheles offers us a lift and we head
over get a closer look -- it\'s a rough flight as Orthostopheles hasn\'t
flown for some time, but were aren\'t going to criticise a dragon.


The countryside that passes beneath us appears very ordered, there are
hills to the south and mountains to the east slowly rise to a great
height. Landing on a shelf on the mountain we discover standing stones
that, following some examination, are very magical. Casting within the
standing stones magic is incredibly easy (+100%) but it is impossible to
resist magic (-100%). Orthostopheles , to is delight, is able to use his
magic to transform to a human. We take the opportunity to cast all our
beneficial spells, then fly back to the keep for a well-deserved lunch.
Orthostopheles is looking forward to eating while in human form again!


As we finish lunch a tall elf wearing exceptionally well-crafted armour
introduced himself as Sir Garrack, he explains they have made room in
the priests\' quarters for us. Leading us there is explains the history
of the conflict; they have been fighting the drakes all his life, the
dragons and their kin occasionally raid by mostly keep to their mountain
caves. A necromancer appeared in the forest a decade ago and has grown
in power since then, and is now a significant threat. Given the recent
escalation, more forces have been committed to the forbidden forest to
hold back the enemy. Lord Horowitz doesn\'t like magic or mechanical
devices but does allow items to be brought from the \"village\" (our
town on the other side of the gate) to use against the drakes. The civil
unrest is only fueling the problems, the internal fighting creates power
for the necromancer, he feeds of it, and it is believed it has extended
his reach into the cities. He is working from within their kingdom to
cause issues -- the elves, once great allies, are no longer trusted by
the populous.


We inquire about the standing stones and Sir Garrick explains it is a
fairy ring. There are connections from this world to the fairies, which
is where all magic comes from. The Castle was originally built to watch
over the fairy ring. However no fey have been seen in decades, it is
through the fey see little here for them anymore. However the locals
still make the fey offerings on High days and some believe this still
keeps the stones active. The Fey are difficult to deal with due to their
chaotic nature but if the connection to the fey is completely lost the
lands would lose their health. Other races are rumored to be living in
the far reaches of the mountains (orcs etc), but not in these lands.
After many hours of talking Garrick offers some parting advice -- we
should not be seen to be talking too much to him or Katarey or
suspicious will fall on us.



### Eating (So hungry) {#eating_so_hungry}

The Keeps dining hall is enormous, it is located in what previously was
the monastic refectory. Many are surprised by the enormous appetite of
the strange child (Sabastian). The hall is filled with people from all
positions within the castle, there is no hierarchy here. We make
conversation Knights that seat themselves are our table and they explain
their order is tasked with keeping people free from the external
threats. The necromancer is in his dark keep in the forest, rumoured he
can move to places of death -- it its said he could have got into the
castle when the king died 10 years ago (when the accident happened --
related??). Its though he can travel in spirit to battlefields and
places of murder, or to unfortunate and unpleasant death.


The Knights foreswearing not be involved in the internal politics. Young
and ambitious individuals are often given to the Order with a tithe,
removes them from the field of inheritance. The Nobles are currently
withholding support for the knights to pour cash into their own plans.
Delicate balance to keep the knights funded and functional, but to
prevent any perceived interference from the knights.


The Order are trying to build steam bolt throwers and steam airships,
but magic is scarce, and they require something reliable. The knights on
the hill -- was a battle there around the time of the fall of the king.
It is a place of ill omen.



## History lesson {#history_lesson}

We decide to do for broke and head over sit with the Commander, he
explains Orthostopheles is a trusted ally and has spoken for us, so the
Knights consider us allies. He explains ten years ago (coincidence??)
the crown was struck down - King was assassinated by a corrupting
poison, the prince was struck down lies in a coma and the Queen lost her
mind. The only survivor, the princess, is now approaching age to inherit
the kingdom and the Regent is believed to be plotting against her. As
the prince is still alive and technically should take power, a political
battle taking place and a schism in the Kingdom threatens.


The Knights have been accumulated items and favours to be used to defend
the kingdom from all threats, both internal and external and it may soon
be time to use them. Their knights forces are widely spread, but given
the political turmoil they must soon be forced to act. Plotters are
ready to undermine the Knights for their own power, which will
ultimately cause the kingdom to collapse.


The Commander fears that the dragons may have changes form and
infiltrated the nobility. He is heading to the Capital, a place that
disheartens him, and try to restore some order -- which will be
difficult given the suspicion and distrust. People at the capital will
be suspicious of us given out association with the Knights , but we may
be able to assist him and we are asked to accompany him when he departs
tomorrow.


Much of the evening has passed, and we head off to sleep -- we are
surprisingly tired. Taking a quick trip to the roof for an astrology
reading we ask how to escape from this world, the stars tell Sabastian
\"Find source of corruption and restore balance.\"

## Ahoy

Awaking the next morning before dawn, Sabastian get joins the early
shift for breakfast and performs a quick reading of the stars from the
roof -- \"Find and release what truly does not belong here\".


Meeting Lord Horowitz and Lady Katerey at the docks, and their personal
guard, we board a large single sloop. The commanders take small state
rooms and everyone else grabs a hammock or place on the deck. One the
first day we pass rough forest which turns into towns and farming on the
next few days. This appears to be the farming heartland of the county,
we pass many barges stuffed with food. Talk centers around the capital
and people within, we learn;


\* the Prince is not dead, but also said not alive. He is kept under
lock and key and very few have access to him. He has not been seen in
public for many years. The Princess will soon be old enough to rule, but
it is not clear if she will be sharp enough to do so. As her older
brother is alive, her coming to age causing a political crisis, with the
Regent is pushing for her to become the ruler.


\* The city did once have some magic and the court has an enchanter, but
they are now gone. He went missing soon after the assassination. The
Court was known to buy magical components form the fey. Alchemy and
smiths can often take raw magical material and put it in items, but it
is extremely limited there days. The elves are distrusted as they are
different, there is so much paranoia, they will distrust Sabastian (as a
hobbit) and Villa (as he is not local).



Approach the town we are impressed by enormous and beautiful tower, some
500ft tall, which appear to have gardens at the top. More extraordinary
are the airships docket to the tower. Horowitz explains the Capital can
maintain the Airships but have lost the ability to make them -- the
secret of lift wood has been lost. The wood required magical
preparation, they do not have access to the magical ingredients or the
witches that cast the magic, as most witches now near the edge of
nowhere.


The river surrounding city, and the island bounded by bridges. We sail
under enormous arch and dock in the city port. The Knights have a
compound (fortress) that would withstand some assault, and is located on
a defensible place on the western quarter. The Knights did have a
compound on the main island, but they were forced out some time ago as a
result of politics. However they still maintain a private room at
court.


Horowitz explains at the time of the King\'s death, there was trouble on
the frontier and many rumours swirling around court. The King was
assassinated, his death seen as a dark necromantic act, for his killer
not captured. Following his death there was an outbreak of undead and
the factional fighting commenced, many people went missing. There is
still lots of bad blood from that period.


We are advised that we should talk to the Order\'s ambassador at court,
he has been there a long time and is a person of age and patience.
Horowitz laments that the Knights do not have the skills for the
politics of the courts, they are direct, and have few spies.


Wearing the provided acolyte\'s robes, we board a skiff an hour after
sundown and take this to the main island. Sabastian discovers it very
challenging to cast. The city is well lit with some sort of magical
effect, there are glowing balls of light though out the city. As we dock
we see mounted and armoured knights, carrying the royal standard,
heading toward us. They push people out of the way and their wide group
blocks the local guards. Following a ten minute pointless standoff the
royal guard break into double file and march past, lots of hostile
looks.


Making our way thought the streets we pass into the Knights compound
through a side gate and we are greeted by a young man with a broad smile
who is dressed in flamboyant silks, he bows deeply and introduces
himself as Sir Richaux. He explains he has recently returned from the
forests to report, and upon hearing of our arrival through he would
greet us. He explains there is a minor gather tomorrow, a garden party,
as a political event it which will be a dangerously exciting event. He
has his tailor preparing him an outfit and can recommend us to him as we
don\'t have any court attire.


As he leads up to our rooms he explains he does not believe there is any
point in expanding the kingdoms borders, the frontier is filled with
orcs, bugbears and their supporters, and it is slowly retracting. He is
intrigued by us, heroes are of the previous age and very rare these
days.


The building appears well fortified and rooms are nicely appointed. A
glow from Sabastian\'s pocket get his attention, the Ruler Card is
glowing with a clear bright sunlight. Examining the card we can make out
a stylised humanoid. We pull out the Joker and, although he cannot talk
to the card he can tell the effect is elemental. Slowing rotating the
card we notice if the card is upward more light comes out. We climb out
onto the roof to see if we can work out what the card is point at, we
stare at the stars for a while and are confused. Looking around from our
vantage point we notice the tip of the island seems to be its
unnaturally dark.


Returning to our rooms we examine the other cards. The Drake card
contains an image of an old man looking into a crystal ball, the
Harlequin card seems to be moving very slightly. Feeling confused, and
tired, we head off to sleep.

## Spectre

Rising before dawn we head to the river, experimenting with casting
along the way. It seems it is difficult to cast in the Capital, this is
going to life much harder for us.

-   -80 in city
-   -50 at water\'s edge
-   -0 at water\'s edge on sun set/rise

Villa tries to locate Delirium, and the arrow points to the card.
Following some magical examination we discover the card is a portal to a
maze. Villa casts a Wizard eye and to great surprise it enters the card.
Villa finds his eye in what appears to be a bone maze, the ground is
barren ground -- grizzly skulls are in the walls and floor. The card
becomes a window into the maze and we call out for Delirium, only for a
Spectre appears from one of the walls. Following a strange exchange of
spells through the tiny card window, the Spectre flees into the bones
walls.

## Garden Party combat {#garden_party_combat}

We head to the morning markets and greedily eat a large selection of
foods. The locals commend on how greedy Villas child is. We encounter
Sir Richaux and continue breakfast while discussing the garden party, we
both need outfits we come up with a cunning plan to borrow a suit of his
and magically copy it. Conversation moves to the attendees, the new
Royal astrologer is a bit rubbish even though he has been in the role
for ten years. His predecessor, Sir Malius, was difficult to get on with
and mysteriously disappeared, with his assistant replacing him.


That afternoon, following some magic to make attire, we depart for on a
fancy wagon, accompanied by Lord Harawitz, Lady Kateray and Sir Richaux.
This is a combat mission into hostile territory. As we ride into the
castle through the gateway tunnel that is illuminated by crystals, that
are True Lights (vary rare), apparently nothing can hide in the presence
of True Light. On a hunch Sabastian pulls out the Harlequin card
(Delirium\'s) and its now pitch black, however his Witchsight shows a
view from the ceiling of what appears to be a dungeon. He can see
Delirium about 40ft away who is unmoving on the black pitted floor with
bone nails through her hands and feet. The room is filled with
skeletons. Sabastian manages to stifle his surprise and slides the card
back into his pocket.


Arriving at the garden party our group readies for social combat.
Sabastian and Villa head to the fringes and leave the others to make the
frontal assault. Asking about asking about astrology, we are pointed to
a young man on the fringe of the party. We make our introduction and
begin talking to Elyis and his wife. Elyis explains Malius was careful
not to train anyone to a level that could replace him, and after he
disappeared and most of his apprentices quickly departed. Malius
mistrusted his apprentices, and thinks he was promoted because of a
letter by Malius.


The Sovereign Star disappeared from the sky the very night the king was
killed. It sat right above the tower, if it fell it would have fallen
right above the tower. We ask if he can find out more, but he is very
hesitant, digging into the history of the start would not be taken
well - it would remind people of their failure. Elyis did try to locate
his master, but Malius\' skills are great and used his ability to evade
detection. He is a wanted man as many blame him for not seeing the
events (scapegoat?). Strangely all the portraits of Malius are missing.
Sab draws a picture of Malius with the help of Elyis.

## New friends and new knowledge {#new_friends_and_new_knowledge}

We mingle with other guests and see frail old man in dress armour
sitting in prominent chair. He introduces himself as the Knights
Ambassador, Jerome. He is aware of our arrival and where we came from.
He explains that Elyis is not the man for the job, he lacks application.
Malius made it his life\'s work to bring misery to people. Elyis shares
much with us



-   Magic is tied to the wilderness, buildings are an anathema to magic
    the absence of wilderness is causing the difficulty with magic
    (we\'ve notice this when casting). Unfortunately, not it is not a
    subject that is well studied.
-   The fey like the easy life and enjoy the exchange of magical
    trinkets for goods. It is difficult as they are not to be trusted.
    However due to the deeply suspicious little trade is occurring.
-   There are few races that have mastered magic, the Elves are one of
    the few. The true masters are almost impossible to reach. The Great
    Druid (is he still alive?) built this Castle, the great tower still
    belongs to the elves. Strangely the few elves that are in the
    capital still do not go close to the tower. It seems sealed, in his
    youth he searched for and entrance but never found one. Apparently,
    the top is guarded by air spirits, and the bottom is near the falls.
-   No one visits the knights old habitat. The regent forced them out,
    as it could have become a rallying point, but he did not have the
    power to give the property to anyone else. Its rumoured to be
    haunted.
-   Its rumoured the princess will marry before she is made queen, and
    if enough of the Counts root for the husband to take power he will
    become King and take power. It is a topic of great interest, the
    Order has not taken a stand. He expects all will want a child
    produced quickly and given a chance to heal the political issues.
-   The Knights are scattered over the kingdom and it is difficult to
    bring them together to act. The greatest foes are in the forests, a
    vicious orcish invasion. The dragons are probably behind this,
    always seeking destruction.
-   As magic has become harder in this world the dragons power has
    weakened, it would be hard for them to strike the main city without
    breaking the order of the city.

## Retreat

The garden party winds down after a few hours and we depart. Debriefing
back at the Orders\' Residence we discuss the garden engagement, our
team has escape without taking too many blows. The princess was notable
by her absence -- no reason was given. Her 16th birthday is in a month
and she must be present for the grand event. We ask if we can get hold
of a True Light, apparently the knights have some in the basement,
somewhere, a quartermaster will be sent to find them. Asking about
tactical matters we are told we must talk to Lady Seffan, she is the
battle commander and can apprise us of the knights ongoing battles.

Following an afternoon of relaxing Lady Seffan arrives, she armour that
has been seasoned in battle. She has heard of us and quizzes us about
our magical abilities, and we discuss how they can be used in battle. As
the sun descends, the packing begins as we discover the party are
leaving for the castle tonight. At a formal dinner on the boat we are
asked to set up a portal network centred on a farm holding 10 miles east
of the town to the front lines. There are enough old keeps on the way to
use as way points. They send out a call for their champions that can
join us on the front line (apparently were fighting!), it will take
around 10 days to have everyone available. In mean while they will hunt
for the True Light.

Late in the evening we depart the boat and set out on foot, walk cross
country in the rain for an hour to reach the farm. Seffan travels
effortlessly. The sprawling farmstead is made of many buildings, the
most prominent is a two-storied hayloft that appears to be heavily
fortified. In deeps shadows we spot many lurking guards. We are lead
through a well concealed door into a large basement under the hayloft
and settle into down for sleep.


## Flying visits {#flying_visits}

We are woken early with breakfast, the people her are hardened military
folk. We fly out soon after dawn, accompanied by Eric (the strong) and
Seffan. We fly about 100 miles in a fairly east-ish direction over
planes and rolling hills, the land is well cultivated. Eventually we
arrive at a mire (10 miles across -- roughly circular), the area is
covered in a thick fog and the light looks unnatural.

We land in the the swamp, near the keep, with a few injuries. Eric loses
some of the food! We repair and heal up. It is very easy to cast magic
here, but the mist in the swamp swirls whenever we do so. We enter the
keep, the entire area seems damp and reeks of the mire. The tower is the
only standing structure, the rest of the keep is crumbling. We create a
portal, with some difficulty.

Sabastian has a meal (or two) and the recasts wings, the group continue
their journey and covers about 220 miles, flying over large forests and
mostly following a windy road. Near the end of the flight a primordial
forest appears on the horizon.

As the sun sets we land in a field near a large encampment and guards
escort us through the grasslands to a wooden palisade, a large military
camp flying the Order\'s pennants. Seffan explains this is the command
encampment of the front lines and the best place for a portal. The
encampment moves every few years to stay close to the trouble. We are
about 20 miles from the rough edge of the forest and another 30 from the
front line in the forest. They have simple alchemical healing, so our
presence is very welcome.

We stop for dinner while Seffan receives an update from the leadership.
It is decided we should set up the portal in a tent, immediately, so we
don\'t have time for dessert. Once the portal established we stop off at
the forge and infirmary to repair both armour and people, before we
settle in for sleep.

## Battle testing {#battle_testing}

Seffan has us woken before dawn, we\'ll be flying out to the forward
camp this morning. Casting our full complement of magics, and having a
large breakfast (well, Sabastian does), we depart on wings, flying low
over the treetops. About an hour later we arrive make some pinpoint
landings on a small platform in the trees. We levitate Seffan to avoid
her having to land with wings.

We are in a hideout in the treetops, rope bridges connecting the
platforms in the trees, that conceal them from the orcs and goblins. We
descend to the group, power up the troops, and begin hunting. Seffan
explains this is a test of the magics in combat. Encountering a small
orc encampment the troops sneak in and devastate the camp, quickly
wiping out all its occupants.

Returning back to treetops we heal up wounded troops and rest overnight.
We are awoken early and fly back to the command encampment. . Seffan
talks to her commanders and plots how to use the magic, having now seen
it in combat. Following lunch we portal back to the farm and head to the
Capital, it will take a few days to assemble the required troops so we
have time a rest up -- which is fortuitous as the Knights have located a
True Light, it is cracked but should still have a few uses.


## Undead madness {#undead_madness}

That afternoon we head out from the farm, accompanied by Richaux in tow,
to see if we can free Delirium. Once we are some distance from the city
his man sets up a tent (so none can see what we are doing) with blackout
curtains. Knowing this could get rather dangerous, we cover ourselves in
magic and drop a ward against undead.


We shine the True Light onto Deliriums card and we see the same scene --
Delirium pinned to the ground surrounded by hordes of skeletons. Villa
attempts to Delirium with ventriloquism, with no response. Sabastian
uses a magical item to pull out the spikes from a distance, even through
he resists each time he is horribly drained. Villa changes Delirium to a
mouse and uses telekinesis to life her toward the window, as she gets
close we examine her aura we detect she is under a maximum ranked Petit
Mort. We pull the mouse through the window just as a wall of bones
appears over the space. Villa has an eye in the room and can see the
\*all\* the skeletons preparing magic. A Spectre erupts through the
window and the party\'s bladders quiver, but the warded Whitefire
destroys it. We pull away the True Light to reinstate the maze and drop
a necromantic counterspell. We put the face to face with the Sun card
and wait. Nothing else appears to come through so we pack up and head
back with our mouse.


Having made it back to farm by lunch, we return Delirium\'s form, change
her out of her smelly clothes and put her to bed. We have no way to
remove the Petit Mort so we leave her to heal. We have a long lunch and
rest the remainder of the day.


## Night attack {#night_attack}

We are abruptly awoken at about 3am by a knight. The watch keeper has
asked for assistance, some guards patrolling around the perimeter of the
island have been attached and we need to get there to aid them before
the royal guard turn up -- their \"help\" may be terminal. Quickly
dressing we rush into the cold along the south eastern bridge and are
taken to the Night Captain -- he is long in years and wide in stomach.
He explains a single survivor of the guard escaped to raise the alarm,
the remainder of the watch are missing. He wants to solve the problem
before the morning as the crown will use this to further remove their
power. We talk to Reddick, the survivor and he explains that the watch
were six in number and on foot. They were patrolling the riverside and
observed a bright light on the south tip of the island a desolate area.
They went to investigate a light at the top of a small mound of broken
stone, as they got close a dark wave washed over them and he fled in
panic.


We head to the river and painfully cast spells before heading to the tip
of the island. The wall at the tip of the island is pushed out, broken,
and a light is emitting from the rubble. Using a detect undead we locate
a wight, 4-5 nightgaunts and one lich. They appear to be in an area of
deep darkness (R20 darkness) waiting to ambush us. Not been fighters we
back away and Sabastian casts multiple meteorite showers, all timed to
appear at once. We cast a R20 light as they meteorites slam down on the
wall, revealing the undead. Alarm bells are ringing, due to the
meteorites, and the undead spread out and head towards the party but
most of them are struck down as by magic before they reach us. Before we
can celebrate too much we are struck by Agony and we are forced to crawl
out of the range as the few remaining undead charge toward us. We escape
the agony before they reach us and we down hem with magic.


The Royal guard have arrived, we can see them on the well lit bridge.
The rough ground and a darkness (where did that come from?) keep the
guard at bay while we fight the lich. After a volley of spells
(including a R20 Necrosis) the lich is slain. Searching the battlefield,
we find the bodies of the guards, it appears they were converted to the
night guants but have reverted in death. There are some buildings here,
they are twisted and in danger of collapse. The area is corrupted, but
it is easier to cast here. In the distance we hear a booming noise,
people trying to force through a different gate in the wall that is
rarely used and now warped. Our search ends quickly when as we hear the
gate break and mounted troops ride though holding True Lights lamps. We
were able to examine the wight -- its was a desiccated corpse, about ten
years old wearing exquisite armour and clothing with the royal
insignia.


We make our way back to Watch Captain Ferris without encountering the
Royal guard and break him the bad news -- he is visibly shaken, losing
five guard at once is an enormous loss. He will let his superiors know,
and not mention us. A wake is to be held at the Orange Parrot tomorrow
night and we are invited to pay our respects. He will pass us work if he
hears anything more of the attack.


## Sudden Departure {#sudden_departure}

Sneak back to the Order\'s townhouse we check on Delirium (no change)
before filling in a very awake Richaux. He explains the body sounds very
similar to the King\'s burial outfit, and he was buried with a number of
guards that were slain with him. The implication that the King has been
animated will rock the court, if it gets out, and the Regent they will
take extreme steps to ensure the news does not travel. We are advised to
leave the city at dawn, and he will send knights with us to fortify the
Keep of the Last Stand.


The next morning it is obvious word of some sort has spread, there is
lots activity at the port -- many other people have decided to depart.
Lord Horowitz has obvious prepared for this eventually as we have a
skiff awaiting our arrival, Richaux and Lady Katarey are with us as
well. The activity at the docks is tense, but we depart without any
trouble occurring.

On the morning of the second day Delirium awaits, she is momentarily
confused but quickly acclimates to her situation. She recognises
Sabastian and the world she is in, and explains, while eating (it has
been 10 years), what she remembers - the Empress was with them when the
maze was dropped to escape, she may be trapped as well. Baccarat spent
significant power in the Trumps as a backup plan so she expected at
least some of them would escape. Delirium is weak and suffering from
mortal hunger and we leave her to rest.

We arrive at The Last Stand just before dawn the following day, we are
met at the docks Elven operational commander, he passes us a message
from Sir Jerome which explains the royal crypt have been despoiled and
the king/body guard may have been animated. The Nobles are frothing, the
city is closed and the royal palace is under lockdown. He will send
notes to the farm.

Heading into the keep we notice a change, the sun has barely risen but
there are troops on the field training. We escort/carry Delirium to
Orthostopheles\' room and they warmly greet each other. Fetching some
tea and making ourselves comfortable he briefs us on his activities; the
stone fairy circle has attracted a large number of gargoyles, so he is
staying out of there. (Could be used as a portal, not sure where it
would end up -- travel ley lines). There have been battles further up
river, wyverns are attacking, and it is feared the castle may soon be on
the front lines. He has observed many refugees making their way to the
Keep so has enchanted some of items with Contingencies for the coming
battle.

Delirium explains she appeared in the Necromancers complex and was
jumped by wraiths and various other undead. She could normally escape,
but was significantly weakened by the initial escape, after a long fight
the Necromancer engaged her and she was defeated, the last thing she
remembers is having spikes driven through her limbs. She doesn\'t think
the Necromancer is a vampire, but he is very powerful. He is raising an
orcish night gaunt army and has been training orcs. A large attack is
coming, but she doesn\'t know when. Her power has been stolen and being
used by the Necromancer. She wont recover power until it is released
from the magic it is powering.

## Planning

Having sat with Commanders all morning while they finalise the battle
plans we get a bit bored, but the work is finally completed and we
depart for what will be our last nice lunch for a while. Over lunch Lord
Elfwine, an elven commander, introduces Sir Henry and Lady Alys. They
are both battle hardened knights who have recently arrived to the Keep
and are looking forward to the new push.

The next 1 Â½ days are spent ferrying troops, via the rune portal, to
the front. Sabastian makes some minor armour repairs during the day. A
cryptic note arrives from the Capital, \"The orange parrot I reported
missing has returned\", the town guard have news for us.

The following day is spent preparing for the attack and awaiting
scouting reports, the attack will take place in the evening. An orcish
stronghold, deep in enemy territory, will be targeted -- a small team
consisting of Seffan, Sabastian and Villa, will fly deep into the forest
and take control of a small tower. The remaining troops will be brought
in by portal, and then the underground hold will be attacked.

## Interlude {#interlude_1}

With the day to wait, Sabastian and Villa head back to the Capital to
find their \"lost parrot\" in the afternoon. The city is closed and
under curfew, so we slip in invisible. We find out way to Captain
Ferris, the watch captain, who explains our parrot is in storage. He has
Reddick lead us on a long and convoluted route to a non-descript
building in a warehouse block. Reddick explains he was told to send us
to a room and wait outside. After poking around the junk filled room we
find a secret door that reasonable well disguised.


Captain Ferris, the captain of the town guard greets us, he explains the
majority of the guard have been stood down. Rumours are swirling that
the King and his personal guard are missing from the crypt. The captain
speaks in exhausted and careful chosen words, the guard will stand with
the Knights to protect the Kingdom and passes us correspondence for the
Knight\'s Command. We slip our way out of the city and return to the
front.

## Attack

Returning back to the camp we prepare for the assault. We meet the
champions, a small group of exceptionally experience warriors and cast a
variety of magics on them, Orthostopheles enchants them. Seffan,
Sabastian and Villa head out in the evening, flying for many hours, deep
into enemy territory.


Still dark, the group land in a small clearing by a smallish pond. The
rain is still coming down hard and the group are wet and slightly cold.
Taking a few minutes to magically remove our exhaustion, we walk through
brush for a small time before climbing a hill that has three towers on
the top. Between our magic, and skill, and the weather, no one will
detect our arrival.


Villa sleeps the orcish inhabitants of the largest tower and we slip in.
The tower is disgusting, Orcs are filthy! Many hours later, following
many failed attempts, Sabastian finally manages to create a rune portal
and ferries in the troops - it has taken so long its almost light. The
weather has improved slightly, and the rain is stopped, but it is still
very windy.


Villa has run a wizard eye through the ground while waiting and identify
a point close to the tower were the dark sphere will create our
entrance. With the hole created the troops, who are well prepared,
thrown down ropes and slide down into the natural cavern with ease.
Followed by Villa and Sabastian, trailing a dark sphere behind him. The
entrance wasn\'t quite on target and the troops needs to wade in from
the shallow lake, the battle begins.


There are only ten of us, yet our powerful magics are devastating. The
orcs have almost no magic and we run through them with ease, Orcish
screams echo throughout the cavers and they bodies litter the ground,
the ground becomes damp with Orcish blood. A rune mage causes us some
brief difficulty, he creates undead troops but they are dispatched
quickly.


The Orcs finally break, and in flee in panic from out panic. A commander
rallies them, and hundreds take positions behind barricades, situated
hear the complex\'s entrance. Seffan leads the wedge and they break
through the barricades, the orcs howl in wonder and fear -- no leader
can rally them now and they flee toward the exit -- the Champions are
driven and cut down the all the fleeing orcs they can reach. Sabastian
has time to cast multiple walls of light over the exit and the results
are devastating -- the orcs are massacred. The Knight pick through
hundreds of bodies that are amassed around the exit, assuring no
survivors.


he next few hours are spent searching the complex and picking it clean
of anything useful. Sabastian itemise most of the metal amour, this can
be melted down and reused. The complex cannot be collapsed, but many of
the entrances can. We run the Dark Sphere through anything we don\'t
take, and the bodies to stop the necromancer using them. Some hours
later we are celebrating at the command fortress, more damage has been
done in a day than the last few years.

## Martial law {#martial_law}

Returning back to the farm we catch up with Delirium, she is still weak
but feeling improved. There is a note for us from Lord Horowitz,
\"Expecting city curfew at dusk, come back immediately or sneak in.
Expecting marshal law. \"


We head back to the city, and the gates are heavily guarded. Royal
troops wearing heavy armour are interrogating anyone that wants to enter
or leave the Capital. Sneaking into the city we make our way to the
Order\'s townhouse and are quickly ushered in to see Horowitz. We
didn\'t think it possibly, but he is looking more serious than normal.
He explains the front line has reached the Capital; there have been a
spate of infiltrations into the Capital and individuals are been
attacked in the open, undead have been seen in the countryside and
drakes have been seen flying close to the capital. The Regent has
declared martial law and taken direct control of the Royal Guard. Out
actions against the orcs has interfering in the Regent\'s machinations
to take control and he must accelerate his plans. Horowitz is short of
troops in the city and concerned if open war occurs they will lose. He
needs us to help, but must not be seen in the open, we wait for his
orders.


That night Sabastian tries to read the Night\'s Sky, but it is
unnaturally difficult and it fails. Returning to townhouse it is a hive
of activity, Sir Richaux explains the Regent has ordered them confined
so the townhouse will be evacuated at dawn.


We are woken before dawn to the sound of much activity. There is word of
an incident at the Palace and the ambassador cannot leave, the Royal
Guard have been tuned out. We pack quickly and depart for the docks,
while fleeing we receive a note from a town guard and we make a quick
diversion to the Orange Parrot. Reddick takes us to the upstairs bar
where we meet the Captain, we exchange updates and learn that people are
saying both the royal children have gone missing, probably not the
Regent, as he already had control.

## Tower Heist {#tower_heist}

Leaving the city and making our way to the farm, we passed troops
building roadblocks. The City guard are technically under the rule of
the Royal Guard and must obey their instructions, but perhaps not at the
speed requested. The Farm is busy today, filled with troops people are
preparing for a fight. Orthostopheles and Delirium are assisting with
their various abilities -- we cast what magics we can and return to the
city that evening.


We make our way to the warehouse and find Reddick, and a woman in her
20s, awaiting us. He introduces Alicia, who was a maid in the tower. She
can provide us a has a rough sketch of the court layout answers our
questions. She hasn\'t worked there for a few years and never went near
the royal suites and cannot provide any information about them, and she
won\'t give us names of people as she doesn\'t want to endanger them.
With her assistance we are able to make a drawing of the Princess.


Returning back to the farm for a final briefing, Richaux provides us a
delivery from Delirium -- illusionary guard suits (that will only last
12 hours) and lenses that will let us see illusions and any of
Delirium\'s power/magic.


Our plan is to fly to the top of the tower, it\'s a cloudless night with
no moon so our approach will be almost impossible for them to detect.
The Tower is built right on the edge of the escarpment, there are four
bright lights at the top that provide light for the city.


A metal looking ring that surrounds the roof and is white hot from the
lights. As we descent the wings begin disintegrating, Sabastian\'s
completely disappear and he luckily manages to grab onto Villa, they
flutter to a hard landing. Villa resists sinking doom as he lands. The
top of the tower is burning hot and we start burning. There is no way
off the roof so we Windwalk to the airship docked below us.


Climbing down the lifting mechanism into the main tower we find the
entire floor is what was once gardens, there is new construction here.
There are four exits down, but we also spot concealed door on the north
side. It is warded, and difficult to open, but no trouble for two master
thieves.


The door leads to a room about 15ft in diameter, there are four distinct
patterns on the floor which are revealed as portals. There is text
written on the walls, and after some experimentation we identify command
words for the portals which takes are to the following destinations;


1.  a large cavern.
2.  The top of the tower, and we start burning before quickly retuning
    to the portal room.
3.  Turn up in R20 light. Its unbearably hot here so we quickly retreat.
4.  doesn\'t work.



The cavern contains a network of platforms and walkways, the walls are
covered in beautifully carvings. There is a waterfall in the north
corner and there appears to be a blockage as the first floor of the
cavern is waterlogged. Everything seems damp, the stonework and walkways
are not in the best condition. We spend time searching and find there is
nothing is little of interest in the area, the only thing being a large
warm square on the wall. The wall is part of a bound box, a wizard eye
cannot penetrate it. Working on a hunch, Villa casts locate and
Sabastian and returned to the main room and step through the 3rd portal.
The location arrows points to the bound wall. Returning back, Villa and
Sabastian plot for some time before putting on lenses and travelling
through the portal.


The lenses allow us to see a bright colourful, humanoid figure that is
enchanted with Delirium\'s magic. Sabastian touches it and is almost
killed. Its insubstantial and burning hot. It creates a sword of light
and gestures at us, we are able to work out its Kosiva, the Empress, she
is trapped in a celestial form. After some discussion and
experimentation we find we cannot move her through the portal and close
proximity to her will kill us. We finally work out we can store her in a
crystal of vision, we are being burnt and teleport back to the central
tower. Even through it was a short time the damage is enough to send
Sabastian unconscious. Kosvia bursts out of the crystal and moves away.


Following some healing, we have a quick conversation with Kosiva. Her
abrupt, dismissive personality has not been help by ten years of
imprisonment -- we learn she escaped with Delirium, and had significant
amounts of celestial magic on herself. She was trapped on top of the
tower and imprisoned in the cube, trapped is a bright celestial form. We
fly from the tower and Kosiva\'s glowing from can be seen from miles
around. We talk to Delirium thought the trump and explain we are
incoming with Kosiva, but learn that drakes have been spotted and are
flying to the capital.



### Enemy assault {#enemy_assault}

We fly for some time away from the Capital in order to intercept the
Drakes, fighting around the city will lead to many casualties. Korsiva
is normally argumentative but quickly agrees to assist, she is out for
some bloody revenge and needs an outlet for her anger. Almost an hour
later we spot a squad of drakes about 10 miles away, they are flying
low, about 1000ft and haven\'t spotted us. They are 6 drakes, 20 ft
long, and a large creature, about 40ft long (dragon?). There are troops
on the creature but it is difficult to tell how many.


They are about an hour from the Capital, and too many for us to engage.
As we are flying faster than them we return to the farm and alert them
of the looming attack. Delirium is able to magically move people from
the farm, via her maze and back to the city and assist with the
defense.


Arriving at the city, with about five minutes before the drakes will
arrive, we fly directly to the Order\'s Townhouse. There are about 50
armored knights in the courtyard and teams are setting up arbalests. Sir
Richaux is in charge of the soldiers and, following a quick
conversation, we begin casting magics on the troops. Lord Horowitz has
headed to the tower to convince the Royal Guard to enter the battle.


The drakes arrive at the city, flying low and slow across the rooftops.
The dragon breathes long, intense gouts of fire, setting the city
alight. Buildings quickly catch fire and the smoke quickly obscure the
sky, it becomes difficult to see the drakes from the ground.


Pulling out Crystals of Vision we overlook the city and see some for
drakes have landed near the palace, the troops they carried have engaged
royal guard in near the main entrance. Two of the drakes are circling
the city and fanning the flames with their wings. The dragon is hovering
about the palace, it appears to be pulling the roof off.


The arbalests, on carts, and knights are ordered to the palace to
support the Royal Guard. The unit is intercepted before we reach the
palace, a drake lands on a cart and destroys and arbalest. Unfortunately
for the drake its facing away from us, ripping up the cart, so we
dispatch it quickly- it wasn\'t expecting our powerful magics.


Looking through the crystal we see four drakes guarding the palace
entrance, some of their enemy troops have entered the palace. Richaux
leads the lancers to the palace and engages, a few minutes of running we
reach the fight. The parade outside the palace is held be dragonkin (7
ft high humanoid creatures, wearing plate/scale and duel wielding
glaives). Dragonkin are rounding up non-combatants and pushing them
towards the royal guards to breaking their formation.


We join Richaux and his troops, they are setting up the arbalests. The
bulk of the troops are fighting the dragonkin in the palace parade. Many
of the True Lights have been deliberately smashed. The knights have a
tough fight on their hands but many castings of quickness by Villa sways
the flight. Sabastian engages in healing and Kosiva joins the fight and
lays waste with her glowing blades.


Following some bloody fighting the Knights have the upper hand, with
most of the dragonkin defeated. The drakes at the main gates will prove
more difficult. After some quick discussions we have a plan -- Sabastian
drops meteorites on them, and Kosiva leads troops to engage them.


Delirium casts a maze to move Sabastian, Villa, and a handful of troops
to move them past the drakes and into the palace. The maze never has
precise results and Sabastian appears by himself in the palace halls, in
front of a drake, and cry-flights for almost 20 seconds before the rest
of the group appears. The single drake is defeated the group move deeper
into the palace, following the screams.


We encounter another drake and group of dragonkin and engage a bloody
battle. Sabastian\'s dagger gets very angry with him following a poor
blow and slices open his jugular, his life starts pour out the gaping
wound. Following more fighting and much magic Sabastian doesn\'t die and
the dragonkin are beaten back. Leaving the troops to finish the
Dragonkin Sabastian and Villa rush to the throne room.

### Throne room chaos {#throne_room_chaos}

There appears to be a standoff in the palace there are three groups
facing off against each other.

1.  The Princess, who is flanked by 10 guards.
2.  The Prince, who is flanked by seven guards and has a bodyguard in
    plate armour.
3.  The Regent, who is flanked by a dozen guards.

There is much shouting taking place as no one seems to trust anyone else
in the room. This gives Sabastian time to study those in the room
through Delirium\'s lenses.

1.  The Princess (E&E) is dragon under a shape change, she is a very
    martial looking man wearing black scale armour, four of her guard
    are dragonkin.
2.  The Prince (Necromancer) is a 7 ft tall gaunt person in bone armour,
    carrying bone scythe.
3.  The regent is just the regent, looking very scared.


The \"Princess\" and \"Prince\" cast. Everyone is hit by an agony, the
Princes\' troops seem immune. None has hit anyone yet and Sabastian
yells out the identities, this confuses the Regent and annoys the
royalty. The \"Royalties\" order their troops to engage and start
casting.


The room is hit by many magics over the next minute; R20 Necrosis,
darkness, lights, streams of corruption, paralysis stares, slows and
quickness\'s. The troops are quickly whittled down, the Regent is
petrified and hides behind Sabastian and Villa. With most of her troops
dead the \"Princess\" flees. Fortunately, Villa manages to turn the
\"Prince\" to a frog and pick him up with telekinesis. Sabastian drives
a dagger through his body, sticking him to the wall and he changes back
to the prince.


It takes some time, but order returns to the palace and the remaining
dragonkin are slain. As the palace is searched the real Princess is
found, bound and gagged, in the Regent\'s room. The Commander of the
Royal Guard question the Regent and quickly arrest him.



### Victory

By the end of the day we have pieced together what has happened. The
Dragon has transformed to the \"Princess\" and was looking to take
control of the palace. The Prince was poisoned with necromantic magic
that allows the Necromancer to control him at will. The Drakes and the
Necromancer were loosely working together and both wanted to control the
palace. Delirium has much of her power back as the necromantic illusions
are gone. The real princess is given power by the Royal guard and the
Prince buried (we decide not to resurrect him, otherwise the power
problem would come back). With our allies freed and the problem solved
we give our goodbyes before we get embroiled with more activates and we
get stuck here.


We pass through the gates and return to Cormelle and back to Kanlaoise.
We have been gone for some time. Delirium is able to tell that Baccarat
is trapped in a world called Spring.


We ask around and find the following are still missing

1.  Baccarat
2.  Varenthia - Ice Queen
3.  Shahdad (was not with them when they did things)


Kosiva returns to the palace to take back control and we return to
Orthostopheles\' house to have a well-earned tea. A few hours later
there is a knock on the door and the butler brings us a note, there is a
squad of guards outside to escort us home, apparently Kosiva wants to
control the narrative and doesn\'t want us talking and disagreeing with
her explanation of her absence. We say goodbye to Orthostopheles and
Delirium, and thank he butler and cook for their help. Flying back to
Wu-fang\'s monastery we return to Alusia.

[Category:Kanlaoise](Category:Kanlaoise "wikilink") [Category:Scribe
Notes](Category:Scribe_Notes "wikilink")
