---
title: Sun Elves & Demons
author: Tulip
date: 1/2/808 WK
---

# Details

Game Master
:[Ross Alexander](Ross_Alexander "wikilink")  

- [Turf](Turf "wikilink") Party Leader
- [Tulip](Tulip "wikilink") Scribe
- [Blitzkrieg](Blitzkrieg "wikilink") Military Scientist
- [Ty Trident](Ty_Trident "wikilink")

## Date: 01/02/08

An old(!) inscrutable Sun Elf asks to see
[Blitzkrieg](Blitzkrieg "wikilink") outside of the guild. He has a job
on the plane of [Kanlaoise](Kanlaoise "wikilink"), an old dwarven hold
has been taken over by a Cabal that is producing demon tainted objects
in large quantities. There is likely a daemon summoner assisted by
succubi. Mission. He wants the summoner taken out and the daemons dealt
with, he also wants plausible deniability. Payment. 60, 000sp each and a
supply of minor magical items such as Waters of Healing (4 Rank 12),
Waters of Strength (4 Rank 12), healing potions (28pts 2 each), poison
antidotes (4 synthetic Rank 10, 4 natural Rank 5) and Restoratives (4
12EN & 2 15 EN). Blitzkrieg recruits party members. We get ourselves
organised Turf visits [Baccarat](Baccarat "wikilink") who tells him to
be careful about killing the agents and the minor boss a pit daemon. He
also gets a card which allows us to talk to Baccarack.

## Date: 08/02/08

We get powered up with some help from Callas. Arrive at address
specified by Sun-elf, humanoids in white robes direct us into a triangle
and then surround us performing a summoning. We arrive in a room in a
fort on the edge of a lake and surrounded by an orc infested swamp, and
are meet by Z'akarm obviously someone important as he has a white robe
with gold threads woven through it.

The dwarven stronghold is 90 miles away, we fly for several hours in the
steamy dawn and land close to the dwarven hold on a hill. We fight 4
large humanoid winged daemons with clawed hands and chitenous armour.
Tulip performs superbly killing one! Investigation determines them as
Vrock, non-sentient daemonic constructions with a combined FT&ENâ‰ˆ110,
DEFâ‰ˆ70-100 and MRâ‰ˆ60. The claws carry a spider like poison which
causes partial paralysis. We put a crystal over the dwarven hold,
reconnoitre and go in. 2 heavier larger Vrock without wings and enormous
strength that guard the entrance, they are well hard and take some time
to wear down. They also have an ability that requires a MR check by the
wielder for any magic against them (this includes items ie weapons and
casting), have 15 pts of natural armour and another 12-13 points of
ordinary armour. They require a counter spell "greater summoner" to
banish.

We do down a stair case to find a large square room occupied by 4 heavy
and 2 flying Vrock, as well as 2 large 2hex spiders on the ceiling which
is covered in webs. The spiders have 4 claw attacks and a bite, save or
be slowed. Tulip expands her daemon killing reputation by killing
another one! It takes some time but we eventually get them all.

In the first opening we find 4 great magical bowls containing hellfire
and creatures (not fire elementals ... perhaps hellfire elementals,
hellfire daemons??), there are maybe 500 people (alive & dead) pinned to
the walls and hanging in cages 2 levels deep, in each there is a channel
directing blood into the bowls. There is a very hard battle (each daemon
can send out a large amt of fire damage) we manage to remove all fire
creatures and turn the bowls upside down. Tulip saves Turf's life. But
by the end 100s of people dead or on fire, burning alive. We don't have
the time to look after those left alive and so wall up the entrance and
move on.

We find the abandoned corridor, wall over the door and move on. We see
an imp vanish down one of the corridors on the right hand side, we
follow it finding a corridor that slopes downward. We meet 6 succubae
and 4 imps, in the enclosed space Turf and Blitzkrieg fight at the
front, they get pummelled a bit but kill a few succubae. The succubae
release a door holding water back and we all get washed towards some
stairs, people are badly hurt so at the top of the water we put up walls
and heal up.

At the end of the corridor it returns us to the main room which has 2
new of the heavy Vrock, which take a while to remove. We find the
entrance to the flaming room open, the fire daemons are back in their
bowls and there is a sergeant Vrock and 4 winged Vrock, and the greater
summoner. Tulip gets teleported alone into the room, but manages to
escape, she is very useful putting up walls to block line of sight and
using real smoke for cover. The battle is fierce. Ty eventually kills
the greater summoner but a death curse activates, odd things happen to
him. (Ty has died, however his spirit is intercepted by
[Shahdad](Shahdad "wikilink") the goddess of peaceful rest and sent back
to us (rebirthed). He is both marked (death) and blessed (rebirth) and
we/he owe Shardad a task). The cauldrons (which we had put out) erupt in
flame, the room fills with a rain of blood which catches on fire filling
the whole room, and then a Balor appears. We fight the Balor which is an
avatar of some form. To stop cauldrons being used again we tunnel twice,
push them in, and let them get crushed when the tunnellings ends.

We go back and explore the end door that we missed, and find (protected
by a min 150 DMG ward) a living area which is tastefully and expensively
furnished. When we come back we find that there is a big pool of magma
that is increasing in size ... squashing the cauldrons has started
something underground. We do a speed loot and wind-walk out leaving 100s
of humans to die trapped in the room that originally housed the hellfire
cauldrons. Blitzkrieg spends some time trying to justify this loss of
life to us and himself, gag, yuk, hoyk. Quick check of items looted for
nasties turns up a pair of magical candles formed from the rendered down
fat of innocents. The rest is Rnk 10 clothing for slight male and female
humanoids and some Rnk 10 tapestries which have unusual geometric
patterns and tiling. We nuke them.

Fly back to the fort, talk with employers. We talk to Baccarack (via the
card) and let him know there are some succubae loose on the plane, he
says Delirium will hunt them down. He also tells us that
[Orthostopheles](Orthostopheles "wikilink") is settling into the new
plane and will have work for us soon. A small girl arrives requesting
that we visit the shrine of Shahdad, which turns out to be a garden with
emphasis on form and position (Japanese). An old women there, tells that
our activities have been noted and implies that we may be scaring the
competition. She offers future help should we require it. We offer our
respects. We return to the fort and are returned to
[Alusia](Alusia "wikilink").

## Summary

Payment
: 60, 000sp each  

Items  
waters of healing (4 Rnk 12) -\> 0 left :potions of strength (4 Rnk 12)
-\> 0 left

healing potions (28pts 2 each) -\> ?? left

poison antidotes (4 synthetic Rnk 10, 4 natural Rnk 5) -\> ?? left

restoratives (4 12EN & 2 15 EN) -\> ?? left

Rnk 10 clothing for slight male and female humanoids

Rnk 10 tapestries which have unusual geometric patterns and tiling

Experience
: est 22,000  

Game time
:  

|                   | Start                    | Finish             | Time          |
| ---               | ---                      | ---                | ---           |
| In-game time      | 01/02/08                 | 08/02/08           | 8 days        | 
| Real time         | 10am 01/02/08            | 10.30pm 09/02/08   | 3 sesions     |

[Category:Kanlaoise](Category:Kanlaoise "wikilink")
