---
title: Delivery from Mordeaux
author: Belladonna
date: 5/05/803
---

  -------------------- --------------------------
  Game Master          Ross Alexander
  Party Leader         Belladonna
  Party Scribe         Belladonna
  Military Scientist   Kel
  Party Members        Belladonna (Tricia Hunt)
                       Uzi (Zane Hembest)
                       Kel (Terry Spencer)
  -------------------- --------------------------

The commission is to collect a package from Jacque of Millau's Baronial
house, which is under seige from the neighbouring Baron
Vilneurve-sur-lot, and take it to to \"law firm\" Goodrich Fairwright
McKellum in Kiel. Contract is organised through a Victorian man who
refuses to give his name, but does supply a scroll to identify ourselves
to those under seige. 5000sp each to pick up and deliver package (nature
undisclosed) and another 1000sp for material the proving the
interference of outside parties.

# Diary

## Date: 22/04/803

Party is recruited, at night we fly along the coast and then inland up
river. Stop for a rest and are attacked by local bandits.

## Date: 23/04/803

Fly on the next night but go in the wrong direction, return to starting
point, but both Kel and Belladonna land badly, both with grevious
wounds. Walk to a local monastery and are partially healed. Uzi molests
a goat. Figure out that Sir Ty (of Ormond) lives fairly close to here
and could complete the healing. We and hire a cart to carry the injured
and go to visit him.

## Date: 24-29/04/803

Travel to Ty's, get healed, borrow horses and Sir Ty provides an escort
until the border with Mordeaux.

## Date: 30/04/803

Arrive at Thockmorton which is just before the border bridge, the inn is
very unwelcoming and we move on. We avoid the bridge/boundary and its
attendant guards and cross upstream. Make camp, Uzi falls asleep on
watch.

## Date: 1/05/803

Reconnoitre, watching sweeping patrols and work out layout of siege. Kel
calls and binds a pack of wolves. Check out the village. Michaeline
knights are presant in some numbers. Sneak up to gates of the Baronial
house, declare ourselves and are informed the package is the preserved
body of the Baron, ie large and heavy.

## Date: 2/05/803

Sneak out in early hours with body. Patrol catches our trail, but we
manage to create and cross a bridge which we dispel after us, and leave
a pack of enlarged wolves to deal with patrol. Fly to Ty's and get him
to preserve dead on the body. Buy a horse, cart and goods off Ty to
disguise ourselves as travelling merchants. Travel down river and then
try to cross at established ferry site. The villagers are suspicious and
we don't think we will get through without a search, at which point the
body would be rather incriminating. Stay the night in the local inn.

## Date: 3/05/803

We decide to abandon the merchant disguise and hire a boy to take it
back to Sir Ty. Uzi takes coffin out unseen in early morning. Kel and
Belladona walk out main gate. While resting in a cops of trees we are
surrounded by Michaeline troops. Kel buries coffin and we sneak out. We
come back when the soldiers have gone, collect coffin and fly towards
Kiel. Rest on a mountain top when wings run out.

## Date: 4/05/803

Fly on to Kiel. Deliver item to a representative of Goodrich Fairwright
McKellum. Stay in the inn for a night

## Date: 5/05/803

Brief the Victorian man on our reconnaissance, he decides its not enough
for the extra money and are given notes for 5000sp each for the basic
delivery, we then return to Seagate.

  -------------- -------------------
  Start          22/04/803 WK
  Finish         05/05/803 WK
  Time           13 days
  Experience     Uzi -- 6000
                 Kel -- 6000
                 Belladona -- 6500
  Time Playing   4 sessions
  -------------- -------------------


  --------------------------- --------------------
  **Income**                    **Silver Pennies**
  Loot                                    11 & 23c
  Payment                                    15000
  **Costs**                   
  Healing (Monastery)                          360
  Cart (10days)                                 50
  Goods (merchant disguise)                    200
  Cart (return to Ty)                           20
  Total Costs                                  630
  Total In                             15011 & 23c
  Net Profit                                 14381
  Guild Tax (10%)                             1438
  Monies gained each                          4313
  --------------------------- --------------------
