---
Title: Five Woks of Fury - Wok of Clay
author: Belladonna
date: 01/11/803
---

# Party


  -------------------- ----------------
  Game Master          Ross Alexander
  Party Leader         Tye
  Party Scribe         Belladonna
  Military Scientist   Tye
  -------------------- ----------------

Party Members Belladonna (Tricia Hunt), Tye (Zane Hembest), Turf (Terry
Spencer), Everard (Dean Ellis)

Commission
:   Wu Fang the Noodle Master wants help to find the five woks of fury,
    starting with the wok of clay

Payment
:   Wu Fang will train us in some special feat in return.

# Diary

## Date: 01/11/803

Organise details & get info from Wu Fang the Noodle Master. Four of the
woks (including the clay and ice woks) were held in a monestary he left
2 years before it was invaded.

Wok of Clay
:   magic is to do with fire about 50cm across white glazed bowl with
    blue inlay of a fishing scene "can be seen in the sky"

Wok of Ice
:   magic is to do with making ice tunnels, and changing the weather to
    make it winter made of diamonds take by the "white foxes"

Wok of Iron
:   

Wok of Bronze
:   

Wok of Gold
:   

Get an astrology reading: Clay wok is on Alucia perhaps in the hand of
some human in the west kingdom, the Noodle Master directs us to the
monestary where he used to live.

## Date: 02/11/803

Take sea journey to west kingdoms

## Date: 03/11/803

Arrive in Freetown in late evening, walk through the town and then fly
toward the mountains, rest for the night

## Date: 04/11/803

Fly over the mountains and onto the river. Land and take passage to the
other side on the ferry. Find a local "Jack the Younger" to take us
upriver on his boat to Drachenburg, takes 10 days.

## Date: 14/11/803

Go into local village for gossip and info on the monestary. Apparently
the Dwarves are mining below the monestary and have set up a village
there, they are not well liked. The monestary is now the home of some
large spiders (man sized) and the "White foxes" (snow elves?) have
been seen last winter. Watch out for bandits.

## Date: 15/11/803

Walk up the pass skirting the Dwarven mines/village. Find wolf tracks,
and cart tracks going north.

## Date: 16/11/803

Observe Dwarven mines/village from above. They seem highly organised,
the village is soundly built and some of the mining operations seems to
be mechanised, they are also smelting, and banging; probably making
something. The Dwarves are "dark" Dwarves, but are also working in the
sun.

We move on to observe the monestary, on the way we find Ogre tracks, the
monestary is covered in magical webs, we can see 5 large ice spiders
whose magic is "snap freeze", which we fight and defeat. Orcs turn up
but we climb up into the monestary and they go away.

## Date: 17/11/803

Monestary is square with a main entrance to the north and a central
square tower to the front. The main entrance is damaged and is basically
a pile of rubble. On the NE corner was a tower reputed to be of great
power which the white foxes have taken, all that remains is first floor
and below. In each corner of the monestary is a spiral stair case. Woo
Fang the Noodle Master has the key to the tower, down the center is a
large spiral staircase, the remaining first floor is habitable with
large open rooms where we camp.

From the monestary we can see a white marble tower encased in ice, Woo
Fang the Noodle Master remembers it from when he was in the monestary
(some undefined time in the past, probably of the order 100-200yrs
ago??) . The spiders are busy building a web from the tower to the
monestary. We search the heavens for an indication of its purpose and
determine the encasement which ice is positive and so decide not to
break in. We find a reference to it later in the magical book, it is
encased in ice to protect it from the Penjuary elves?

## Date: 18/11/803

An Imp flies in and crashes in the fire, its here to see Turf who
abandons the party. Over the next two days Belladonna and Tye
investigate the crypt under the courtyard which is accessed via the
corner stairs. There is a large door from the crypt into the square
tower but this is magically hidden and shut with a magical binding, the
wall around the doors is also bound.

Investigating the top of round tower (which is ornately carved with
elvish patterns) there is a knarled magical black tree on the exposed
top section which we determine is a formerly living cursed "witch
wood" tree connected to the "Udan" tree. It has a magical hardness.
We find that water placed on the wood freezes very quickly, and when we
add more the tree sucks it in and shatters. The central staircase
decends to the basement, the floor is cracked and covered in black and
white veins.

## Date: 20-21/11/803

Turf returns with someone called Everad. Woo Fang the Noodle Master has
the key to the large bronze and ornate door in the basement of the
square tower, a small perfectly preserved crysanthenum flower. Inside is
an entrance area with rooms off it and a large "cavernous hole" 400'
deep "the cathedral" which leads into an extensive mine working. We
investigate the rooms that line the entrance area. We spend a few days
extensively investigating this area:

1.  appears to have been a library Everad finds a small box which is a
    "knowldege trap" find a manual of good health through suffering
2.  Magically sealed contains stores of food box of paper with lists on
    it (stores list?)
3.  Magically sealed Nature of binding is greater summoning, we leave
    well alone!
4.  more secure library workroom end part of this room is all made of
    iron, has iron lecturn with a cage contains some books which have
    survived the ravages of time couple of human skeletons
5.  dormatory has beds has second door which is obviously been made
    later as it is of lower quality and a scrible that says "west past
    the stair", we find it enters a tunnel which exits into a (corner?)
    spiral stairwells that terminates going up (100ft) in a plug of ice,
    going down it in freezing water.
6.  another store room old mining equipment
7.  set of cells, an old jail? a set of single cells for the monks?
8.  a store room
9.  one is empty
10. an armoury contains staves and racks and old weapons a sythe and
    numchucks one of the racks has a hidden door behind (protected by
    faint ward, major curse) we find 3 quarter staves, short japonese
    sword and tripod mounted repeating cross-bow

    One staff is well balanced, 1/2 normal weight, Rnk 10 and made of
    ashwood but enchanted to be as hard as iron (binding spell),
    requires 1/2 normal strength to use, +10% SC and +4 damage. One
    staff is porcelin has no aura and is 7ft tall, it does not break
    either.

We investigate room 4 in more detail.

It has a hidden iron door which Turf backfires when he tries to open, he
is hit by a large magical blast and and something magical comes flying
out and escapes. We find a book and crystal figurenes in the hole. Turf
has been cleaned of all magic, he is a long liven non-sentiant and has
no magic record, and all his magic (except for permanent) is gone, his
MA is zero.

The book is cursed to turn any non-elf that touches it into a goblin. It
contains a chronicle writen in an old elven dialect (drow and draconic)
in blood, of the "the choosen" a sect of elves (ice elves, white
foxes?) who have split off from the main arm. It's been writen by a
single scribe and there are no blank pages, we think it is a copy.

The statues are animated constructs (golumns) of crystal and have been
programed in a very specific way which is entirely "reactive". They
respond to each of us tuching them by representing a different persona
and changing color. Turf-goes green, Tye-goes white and shows a human
fighter, Belladonna -goes black and shows a human artisian. (Does it
reflect the aspect and highest ranked skill of those that touch it?) We
find out later that they are infact game pieces (but for what game?)

Amoung the other books in this area is one in an eastern script which
has comments in the margin indicating that the house of Jochenfuller is
invading the monestary in the time of the reign of Sigardsmond, and
'Yin-Tang has found the Northern gate, and he should get out in time
with two of them, however they are keeping one incase they loose all of
them.' Is this a reference to the woks? Woo Fang the Noodle Master
remembers there is a keep 20 miles to the east which may be related to
the human (Jochenfuller) invasion.

## Date: 22/11/803

The "white foxes" or Norns visit. The Ogres and Dwarves in the area
are their underlings. They have the wok of ice and will swap if for the
book and a favour (have to ask terry what happened)??? They add to our
small store of knowledge, remove the curse from the book and allow
Everard to read it.

## Date: 23/11/803

Tye and Belladona investicate tunnels in the "cathedral", and find the
"North Passage" eventually making their way to an older living/worship
area which opens onto the mountain side. It looks like an area inhabited
by dwarves, whith cooking, dormatory and a large cathedral like area,
where they find a preserved magical Dwarven axe, bane against orcs and
goblins. Also find reference to Jochenfuller seige of the monestary, and
find out that their castle is within 50 miles.

## Date: 24/11/803

We fly off to investigate the keep/castle 20 miles away on the southern
side of the Mountain ranges. As we are investigating the inside a troop
of military men arrives and is not pleased to find us their. We
eventually win their grudging accomodation, and discover that the keep
is only one tower from an originally much larger keep belonging to the
Jochenfuller family. We find more ruins outside the keep and raise a
dead man gaining much information from him. The spoils from sacking the
monestary were taken to a Baronal house some 60 miles south of here. The
good included more the woks of clay and ice and some magical books.

## Date: 25/11/803

We fly south and find the Baronal house. We start investigating at the
local village and try to check the maner out at night but are not sneaky
enough. The current Baron was granted these lands 13yrs ago after a
local war.

## Date: 25/11/803

We try the direct approach but get sent away (by the wife) before seeing
the Baron.

## Date: 26-30/11/803

However, in the morning it turns out the Baron he has some problems with
an incursion of Orcs and Goblins and he asks us to join a hastley
gathered war party. We manage to kill a wyvern (and get embareced by a
pack of renigade pixies that were recruiting Orcs and gobblins to kill
their own tribe!) but in doing a good turn for the Baron (and giving him
the wyvern head) he lets us see if he has the wok we want, which he did,
he wanted to get the wok valued and will then negotiate with us for it.
(This bit need finishing off!)

## The Wok of Clay

-   binds any fire that comes into it

-   gives fire mage +5

-   infinte latent heat (ie won't get hot no-matter the temperature)

-   2000gp

## Date: 1-15/12/803

Need to finish off

  -------------- --------------
  Start            01/11/803 WK
  Finish           01/12/803 WK
  Time                  28 days
  Experience              16000
  Time Playing       9 sessions
  -------------- --------------

## Costs(sp)

  ----------------------------------------- ----- ------
  small box which is a "knowldege trap"              500
  manual of good health via suffering                 20
  2 figurines                                       1500
  Wakizashi                                          150
  tripod mounted giant cross-bow                     400
  normal ash staff                                    20
  light teak staff                                   600
  7 ft porcelin staff                                150
  magical Dwaven Axe                                1300
  Wyvern skin                                        200
  Total Goods Received                              4840
  Guild Tax (10%)                             484 
  Astrologer                                  340 
  Food (2 weeks on river)                     140 
  Totals Costs                                950   3490
  Total per person                                   880
  ----------------------------------------- ----- ------

# Items

## Small Box

This box is $1' \times 0.5' \times 3''$ in dimension and has been
enchanted with a minor preservation. Any formally living material
(e.g. a book) placed in the box will not decay. It will not preserve any
possible magical or quasi magical properties of the object. The box
itself is made from teak and is in a plain leather binding.

*Value: 1500 silver pennies*

## Manual of Good Health Through Suffering

This is a diatripe of fantical exercise, body nazism, puritanical living
and regimes of binge and purge is of no apparent use at all, except
possibly for up and coming paladins. The paper and the binding are its
only real value.

*Value: 20 silver pennies*

## Players of Games

These two figures of unidentifiable composition are antimates with the
generic true name of "Player of Games". They are also highly magical and
interact with their surrounding, changing their shape, colour and aspect
in apparently inexplicable ways. They live off magic and will obsorb any
magic cast at them. Their texture is of hard rubber coated in talcum
powder. Sufficient magic cast at them will cause them to disintegrate,
but the exact amount and result is unknown. They do not seem to serve
any useful purpose.

*Value: 1500 silver pennies*

## Wakizashi

This weapon acts as if it is an shortsword for ranking etc. It is not
particularly ornate but has been weaponsmithed to give it a strike
chance of 50% and 4 damage. The steel has been finely tempered and can
be overstrengthed up to PS 20 without increasing the break chance.

emphValue: 150 silver pennies

## Tripod mounted crossbow

This is a semi portable field weapon. It has a strike chance of 45% and
does \[D + 9\] damage, but is treated as a heavy crossbow to calculate
total BC. Loading the weapon requires two people of at least 20 PS each
five pulses to crank.

It weighs 30lbs and 5' wide and 5' long. A giant could wield it without
the tripod, but the strike chance would be reduced to 30%.

*Value: 400 silver pennies*

## Ash staff

This is a plain ash quarterstaff.

*Value: 20 silver pennies*

## Light teak staff

This ash quarterstaff has been carefully selected from woods and is much
lighter than an ordiary staff. It weights 1lb and requires 8 PS to
wield, with a strike chance of 60% doing +3 damage.

*Value: 600 silver pennies*

## Ceramic staff

This quarterstaff is made from some type of ceramic and has some minor
magical binding to make it as strong as steel. Otherwise it just an
ordinary quarterstaff.

*Value: 150 silver pennies*

## Dwarven Battleaxe

This battleaxe is finely crafted and is enruned with banes against
goblins, orcs, drow, elves, dragons and other noted enemies of the
dwarven race. It is enchanted with a permanant enchant weapon spell
(Rank 5) giving a strike chance of 70% and +6 damage.

*Value: 1300 silver pennies*

## Wyvern Skin

This skin is not in good quality giving a base protection of 4 points.
There is enough for a set of armour for a medium sized figure and could
be improved up to 6 points of protection.

*Value: 200 silver pennies*
