---
title: Hunting the Omnicognitron
author: Tulip
date: 1/4/805
---

# Details

Game Master
: Ross Alexander
Party Leader
: Sabrina (and horse) (Dean Ellis)
Party Scribe
: Tulip (Tricia Hunt)
Military Scientist
: Blitzkreg (Adam)
Other Party Members
: Tye (Zane Hembest), Turf (Terry), lar Rah Shan (Mark) arrives


# Diary


## Date: 01/04/805


Lord of Fate (Backerack) from the pocket plane of ??? contacts Turf.
Turf gathers party and we fly to seven sisters and pass into pocket
plane, we are met by a servant of Backerack who takes us to Bacerack's
casino where we meet him.  Dr VonSprocketset a Gnomish inventor has
gone missing leaving a large glass making invention (Omnicognetron) on
the rampage.  The Omnicognetron may have been reprogrammed by a minion
of the Blood Lord as it is now actively hostile when anyone
approaches.  It is large enough that it has messed up Metastopholies
(a semi senile gold dragon that lives on this plane).  During its
rampage it has released two vampires by smashing through their prison
(the Blood Lord's temple a large pyramid).


Commission
: Stop the Omnicognetron.
Payment
: The Omnicognetron


We gather information from Torquesdriver, Dr VonSprocketset's
assistant, Metastopholies and Delerium (the Lady of illusion and
faces).  It appears that Sin and Bad the two Vampires have take Dr
VonSprocketset through a protal to a plane called Victoriana about 5
days ago.


We also fly out to investigate the Omnicognetron, which is out in the
desert.  A plan is formulated, we will attempt to lead it into a trap
which is charged with a spell of confusion by Delerium.  We will
attempt to damage it by breaking its cooling tanks and keeping it
confused until it overheats, or we damage it enough that it stops.  We
power up and head out.  Plan works, the Omnicognetron explodes.  We
find no one inside controling it.


During the fight agains the Omnicognetron a phantasim attacks Tulip
and then flys off, we follow it back to a glass dome in the dessert
which now contains two dead bodies with tubes in their hearts.  We
estimate a Rnk 20 enhance and Rnk 20 mind mage from the 600m distance
required to set off phantasim.  We return to Backerack's casino, he
would like us to find out what has happened to Dr VonSprocketset.


Commission
: Find out what has happened to Dr VonSprocketset.
Payment
: Enchanted weapons or other.


We search throug Dr VonSprocketset's workshop and find an invoice for
glass from Johnsons imort and export, with an address on it.  It seems
the Gnome's were doing some elicit trading on the side.  We power up
and go through the portal to Victoriana.  We arrive in "London" by
Cleopatra's Spire, its very foggy and we cannot see far, all magic is
gone except for permanent and intrinsic magic.

There is no mana.  We are attacked by a boat load of 4 wriths, Sebrina
and Blitzkreg kill one in the first 1/2 pulse the others take off.
Turf has a potion of locate and attempts a locate on one of the
Vampires.  We all follow Turf, eventually we get to a burning
building, Sabrina, Turf and Blitzkreg charge in Ty, Tulip and Ajax
(the horse) keep watch outside.

Blitzkreg and company dispatch both Vampires, Blitskreg sucks one into
his scythe, but they were using children to drain damage into (2
each), and so 3 children are killed, one is still living.  We regroup
and return to the needle.  Divinate needle, it takes the passing of a
mortal soal to activate.  We banish turf who summons us back to
Alucia.  Kids are dead and non-resurectable.  We travel to Ichpar.
Summon an e&e (Ular Rah Shan) so we can locate Dr VonSprocketset when
we return to Victoriana.  He doesn't understand our urgency and
arrives 2 days later.


## Date: 02/04/805


Waiting for Ular Rah Shan.  Spend some time going through papers that
were grabed from the burning buiding which turn out to be financial
records.  Much of the glass was sold to the "Great Exhibition
Company", an address is found.


## Date: 03/04/805


Go to seven sisters and pass through the portal.  Talk to Backerack
power up and go back throug to Victoriana.  Takes a day to make some
investeds???

## Date: 04/04/805


We arrive very early in the morining so find a hotel and then climb out the back and go t check out the Great Exhibition Company's headquarters which is near to Hyde park.  We find details of a "Hypergismatron" and a flyer addvertising a large palace to be made out of glass.  The structure will be held up by iron made at the Hellsgate Ironworks in Shefield, we think this is worth investigating after a small rest return to hotel.  Sleep.

Get the train to Sheffield.  Go to Hellsgate Ironworks.  They don't
want us to investigate, we go in anyway, large metal things attack and
the Hypergismatron attacks with lightening strikes.  Sabrina finds Dr
VonSprocketset, and talks him into shutting the Hypergismatron down.
We find the "Boss" who is just a money grubbing mortal.  We leave
taking Dr VonSprocketset and the most important components of the
Hypergismatron, and poor molten steel on the remaining bits.  Return
to london, sleep the night.


## Date: 05/04/805


Visit the site of the Crystal palace, to try and determine what the
Vampires were up to.  We think they were going to attract a large
crowd to the glass building (especiall as there is a head of states
visit planed) and then turn the Hypergismatron on, shatter all the
glass and release lots of blood maybe.

We try to find out what the spire is so that we can get back to either
the pocket plane or Alucia find some info in a book that says it
is a release point for souls going into the "Western lands".  Find out
when it is next due to open, and arrive to observe, we notice that the
river changes and DA shows it to be the river Styx, we see souls
passing into the river and disappearing.  We all "jump in", we "die"
and travel the styx untile we are "reborn" on the pocket plane.
Backerack meets us.


Start
: 01/04/805 WK

Finish
: 05/04/805 WK

Time
: 5 days

Experience
: 14600 (5400 for Ular Rah Shan)

Time Playing
: 6 sessions

Goods Received
: 20,000 - 30,000 sp worth of raw materials in form of scrap bronze
  and iron (the exploded Omnicognetron) [4860sp per adventurer after
  tax].
	
