---
title: 'Where has the Water Gone II: So Much Blood'
author: Turf
date: 18/10/803 WK
---

# Party

GM
:Ross

| PC     | Race     | Notes                   |
|--------|----------|-------------------------|
| Turf   | Elf, M   | Warrior                 |
| Kilroy | Human, M | Accomplished Rune mage  |
| Kree   | Erelain  | Skilled E&E and warrior |

Employer
: Orthostopheles, gold dragon.

Mission
: Destroy the blood worm that is destroying the water Locate and terminate
the blood vampires

Place
: Pocket Plane (The Endless Desert)

Dates
: 18/10/803 WK to 22/10/803WK

## Entities Encountered

Orthostopheles
: Elderly Gold dragon.

Powerful enchanter, seems a little senile.

Generally retired from public life.

Metasthopheles
:Young Blue Dragon.

Was prisoner of blood dragons for some time.

Blood Lord
: An immortal.

Known for his skill with alchemy and blood.

Pain & Suffering
: Blood Vampires, minions of the Blood Lord.

Stronger than normal vampires, less weaknesses. Can move through
sunlight.

Two colleges? Mind, E&E and/or Necro

Baccurat
: An immortal.

Known for his skill with fate and chance.

Delerium
: An immortal.

Known for her skill with the mind.

## Summary

Turf was approach to a servant of Orthostopheles to resolve the water
crisis in the Pocket Plane. Blood worm had escaped imprisonment and was
being controlled by the vampires to wreak havock on the place.

The worm had been fed and grown immensely, its body was the size of a
large building and the tentacles could tunnel over a mile from the body
of the worm. Located one of the tentacles and managed to sever it, it
was as thick as a man is tall and as hard as steel. Miniature arms and
eyes are attached to the tentacle that can attack anything close.

Vampire launch attack on main city, its bat troops attack and attempt to
capture people. The bats are difficult to hurt, they can shift damage
from their bodies to their wings. We damage the bats, but there are too
many to stop. Kilroy uses a devise that forces everyone to approach us,
including the bats. An intense combat occurs they cover us with
blackfire as we slowly pick them off.

Learn through the immortals that a gambling house holds an item that may
allow the Blood Lord to reform/reenter the plane. We await the attack at
the gambling house. The street is ripped apart and the three stories
build is pulled into the earth by the tentacles. We follow the build
down and fight our way to and through a portal that the building is
pushed thought.

Appear inside blood temple, is a pyramid. Blood Lord is am alchemist,
and the interior is filled with mechanical devices, pipes and people -
all woven together. Locate a giant brain that we attack, vampires join
the fight to stop us. The vampire can shift damage to the people woven
into the pipes. Long combat ensues, Metasthopheles arrives late in the
combat and breaks his way into the temple. The vampires flee through the
hole in the roof, one is destroyed by the immortals as it departs from
the hole in the temple roof. The other attempts to escapes into another
temple.

We track the second vampire and destroy it outside another blood temple.
The temple contains artifacts for altering souls and creating blood
minions. A coffin remains inside a magic field that we cant penetrate.
We destroy the evil devises and hand the temple over to the Immortals.

## Narrative

Turf was approached by '#13', a freed half devil from the 'Pocket Plane'
that is employed by Orthostopheles. Orthostopheles required Turf and
some other experienced people, to assist him. The blood worm was loose
and causing wide devastation, destroying the water sources - people were
beginning to die and mass deaths would occur in a matter of days. The
Blood vampires were behind the activities.

Turf recruited Kilroy and Kree, they made their way to the plane with
haste, flying overnight to the stone pillars in the desert that act as a
portal the plane. We portal the next noon and arrive at the castle of
Orthostopheles and hour later. We await for Orthostopheles to finish his
nap, he is surprised at our early arrival and not completely prepared.

A long conversation follows and we are eventually explained the problem.
Some time recently the seal holding the Blood Worm was damaged by the
immortals, and this was exploited Vampires who took the BW for their
own. Subsequent to this tombs were looted and bodies taken, in all
likelihood to feed the blood worm. The two lakes that supply the opulent
city with water are tainted and people are beginning to die.

We investigated the lakes, they had being mostly drained and remainder
was converted to a sickly thick blood residue. After a great deal of
poking around we surmised a large tentacle had burrowed into the lake
and tainted and drained the lake.

We next visited the large lake near the Iron Tower. After much magical
scrying we found a tentacle enter the lake and descending hundreds of
feet, draining the cold. Following much discussion we decided we needed
to look closer to the tentacle and it was tracked back to a point near
the desert surface. We visited the servant city and hired a work crew to
dig to the tentacle.

Later that afternoon after the sun was beginning to descent we begin to
dig and eventually exposed a position of the tentacle. It was many feet
thick and the exterior was as hard as steel armour. It was then decided
to server the tentacle, after breaking through the exterior an internal
'pipe' was exposed that quickly retreated. Kilroy cunningly used some
magic to halt the 'pipe' and we eventually severed it. Dozens of smaller
arms appeared, covered in eyes, months and claws to harry us but we
evaded them and covered over the tentacle.

A few hours later we observed a wave of gigantic bats flying toward the
city where the worked resided. We made our way there with haste to find
the city under attack and the bats carry off people. We were overwhelmed
with the numbers and simply couldn’t defend the citizens from the bats
until Kilroy utilized a magical convergence that caused them to move
toward us. A lengthy magical battle Kree destroyed all the bats with
hell-fire.

While we were trapped in the city until the convergence ended we
conversed with Lady Delerium \[immortal\], discussing further tactics.
They had deduced that the vampires would attempts to steal a item
located in a gambling house that resided in the rich city. A decision
was made to guard this establishment and destroy the vampires when the
showed themselves.

Our waiting finally paid off and they gambling house was indeed
attacked, by the Blood Worm. The ground exploded as dozen of tentacles
arose from the ground and pulled the building beneath the ground.
Standing upon the precipice of the crater we were greeted with the sight
of the hundred of tentacles and armoured minions. We, our course,
charged. Kilroy made his way into the building while Turf and Kree
wreaked blood carnage, slaying scores of minions and severed dozens of
tentacles. The building was being pulled toward a portal, and we
assembled upon the building roof as we passed through the portal into
the unknown.

We appear inside what was later revealed to be one of the many ziggurat
that littered the landscape. The Blood Lord was a master alchemist and
the interior was a maze of pipes. Along the wall captives were held,
with pipes running into their bodies they appeared to be part of some
fiendish devise. Our most pressing concern were they large, heavily
armoured golems that assaulted us. We alerted the immortals that we had
located the lair of the vampires and they assured us they would get
their as quickly as possible. A lengthy combat follow which ranged over
almost the entirety of the ziggurat – we caused as much destruction as
possible while hunting for the vampires. We found what could only be
revealed as a gigantic brain in a large crystal box, and began to
destroy this. This forced the vampires to show their hands and the
combat started in earnest, they vampires proved to be deadly opponents
as they brushed off our deadly blows and passing the damage to the poor
captives.

We eventually obtained the upper hand and the vampires were weakening
when our allies appeared – Metasthopheles ripped a hole in the roof of
the ziggurat and rained down bolts of lightning. The vampires attempted
to flee thought the hole and one was delivered a killing blow by the
awaiting immortals. We conversed with the immortals and they persuade
the remaining vampire toward another ziggurat. It had changed into a rat
and was using a small tunnel to make its way into the ziggurat, which
suited Kree as he followed with his wizard eye and dispatched it with
hell-fire.

We forced entry into the second ziggurat and found a very evil
sacrificial alter and a room, larger that the interior of the ziggurat,
that contained what could only be described as a field of bodies slowing
growing. We destroyed both the alter and field. The other oddity was a
sarcophagus what was surrounded by a magical field that stopped time. We
spend hours trying to penetrated the powerful magic, with no success.

We left the ziggurat in the hands of the immortals and, having completed
our mission, were granted a boon by Orthostopheles.
