---
title: The Holy Lance of Antioch
author: Callas
date: September 30, 1992 AP
---

# Introduction

## Guild members on the Adventure

Brother Rowan

:   A wicker professing to a priest of Chaunter.

Dillenger

:   First half of the twin pack, a shadow celestial mage.

Sinn Fein

:   Known as SF, the second half of the twin pack. One mean mind mage.

Callas

:   A good looking earth mage and party scribe.

Kesha

:   An elf, a rune mage under all the ceramic armour.

Shoka

:   The party's battle orc.

# Diary of Events

## September 30 1992 AP

After the Guild meeting we are met by Slave, a flying humonculus with a
large necklace wound around its neck several times. He says his master
is willing to pay 10,000 sovereigns per member (about twenty thousand
silver pennies) to find and retrieve the Holy Lance of Antioch.

Later in the evening we go outside the Guild and Slave, carrying a large
bowl of gruel from the Guild mess, uses the necklace to transport us
back to his master. We arrive in a stone room lit by torches. There we
are met by Thain, a tall albino human with a long white beard looking
about 30 years in age.

Dillenger gets Thain to change the payment to 70,000 sovereigns to the
party, regardless of how many make it back.

## October 1 1992 AP

It was current September 1228 AD (late summer) locally. We arrived on
the island of Cyprus, west the Syria (the Holy Land). Syria was
currently occupied by Christian crusaders (from the lands to the north
west of Cyprus) but the local populace are Muslims. The war is over
religion and the occupation of the Holy City Jeruselam. There was also
an Inquisition happening where groups of people from the Holy Roman
Catholic Church would roam the lands seeking out heresy and heretics.
These included political opponents of the church, those had didn't pay
their dues to the church and any non true believer. People who practiced
magic of any kind (which was very uncommon) were also branded heretics
and burnt at the stake after been tortured for a confession. These
groups were a power in the land since they were backed by the mother
church of the Christians.

An astrology reading gave us 'Place of birth and beginning of order,
place of final resting'. The lance seems to block attempts to magically
locate it.

We meet Brother Luciano, a old priest with one of his eyes covered by a
copper celtic corss. He said this enables him to read forbidden texts.
Luciano was once a monk but he read too many of the wrong books and
became a demonologist. He knows where a book which contains a reference
to the lance is kept. The book is in his old monastery in Syria, some
150 miles east of Cyprus.

We were required to enter his old monastery in Syria to retrieve a book
with contained references to the location of the lance.

That evening Dillenger, Kesha and Shoka fly to look of the monastery and
create a rune portal to some where near it.

## October 2 1992 AP

Go through the portal at about 10 AM. After walking for several hours we
arrive at the monastery. It looks more a fortress, with a single tower
surrounded by a 50' wall. On the side of the tower it is on top of a
cliff. To one side is a graveyard. Kesha created another portal near to
the keep (but out of direct sight) and we head back to Cyprus.

That evening Dillenger kills himself when a dark elemental which he
summoned turned on him and body slamed him into the ground. Thain sent
him back to the Guild to get resurrected.

## October 11 1992 AP

At 11 PM we attacked the monastery on shadow wings. After a short fight
in the courtyard, in which Shoka got his collar bone and shoulder
broken, we stormed the keep. We quickly went up the keep through the
ex-purgatory into the library. There we captured a German fighter called
Helmut along with about half a dozen priests. Above the library was
another room with a very large book, spinning about without help, all
wrapped in chains, hanging from the ceiling.

A little later Dillenger arrives and says Kesha had been killed. The
party hired Helmut and with his help we take Kesha's and the templar who
killed him's body back to Cyprus. Later we returned the the library.

At this point I get teleported into the book and die. What happened for
a while is second hand. At some point a group of about twenty templars
arrive at the monastery. They were able to neutralize the book but in
the fight that killed them much off the book gets badly burn. When my
page was torn out the top half of my body was missing (presumed burnt).

## November 16 1992 AP

Helmut, a fighter we subdued during the fight at the monastery, decides
to join us for a fee and it equipped with the latest armour from the
Guild. We return to Eyrth that day.

Brother Luciano says the book has been taken to Al-balu-ah, as it had
been ex-purged by the inquisition.

Al-balu-ah turned out to be a small island is a scummy, shallow lake
about 200 miles inland in Syria. On the island was a small stone tower,
half buried in a low hill.

## November 17 1992 AP

Around mid morning Dillenger shadow walks into the tower while carrying
the unconscious body of Kesha. Later we all portal in. Inside the room
was a stone coffin. While searching around it Kesha fell into a pit trap
and was almost killed by a whyte.

After resting back in Cyprus for six hours we began searching the tower.
Some of the stairs were trapped. The first room down looked as through
it had been looted, with remains of burnt books. The auras on the ashes
say the burning occurred about forty years ago.

Down another 30' for stairs and we found another trap. Down some more we
found a 10' x 10' room with three doors. The first was cursed with
aging, the second had a ward which turns you into a pillar of salt and
the third was trapped with a blindness curse.

## November 18 1992 AP

Dillenger got Thain to collect a couple of street urchins. Returning to
Al-balu-ah the beggar is forced through the aging door. Behind it was a
water trap into which he fell but was rescued by Shoka.

The beggar was then pushed though the blindness door and was blinded. He
was then forced though the pillar of salt door but resisted the magic.
The beggar then tried to get away and went back through the blindness
door into a 20' corridor. Brother Rowan chased after him into the
corridor which fell down sending both to their death through sharp
blades and onto metal spikes.

After retrieving the bodies we continued to search, leaving the other
doors behind. Eventually we found the library behind one of the traps on
the stairwell. We spend the remainder of the day looting the library and
taking it back to Cyprus.

Brother Rowan was sent back to the Guild and to be resurrected. Luciano
says the lance is a holy weapon of one of the Templar orders. It is
believed it was lost during a large battle near Antioch. The order now
has its keep at Belen.

Later Kesha, Shoka and Dillenger fly to Belen to create a rune portal.

The Templar Order resides in a hold dug into a cliff side. At the bottom
of the gully is a medium sized town. SF, using telepathy, gets an
estimate of the number of people, 12 on the curtain wall, 10 grouped
together somewhere in the cliff, 43 scattered around behind the cliff
and 4 in the tower at the top of the cliff.

Using a crystal of vision we began examining the hold, starting with the
tower at the top. In the tower was two people on watch and two below in
bunks.

## November 22 1992 AP

Brother Rowan returned and we continued to search through the hold using
the crystal of vision.

## November 24 1992 AP

Having searched the hold Dillenger decided to shadow walk into the
chapel with Kesha. Shoka, SF, and Brother Rowan flew across the ravine
and attacked the tower. They defeated the guards and SF change form and
heading down towards the chapel.

Mean while Dillenger and Kesha were attacked by a demon, summoned by a
ward around the alter. During the fight SF turned up, the demon killed
Dillenger and both Kesha and SF manage to withdraw to the rooms behind
chapel.

## November 25 1992 AP

Early in the morning Kesha and SF return to where I was, opposite the
cliff on the other side of the ravine where we had been using the
crystal from, with the body of Dillenger.

Later Dillenger was sent back to the Guild to get resurrected while we
spend the next couple of days continuing the search of the hold using
the crystal of vision.

## November 30 1992 AP

We learn that the location of the battle where the lance was last seen
was 50 miles south east of Belen and is now a swamp with a small church
at the edge of it.

## December 1 1992 AP

We searched around the church and entered to meet a mad cleaner. Inside
was a flag on a pole, the holy standard of the templar order. When used
in battle the troops have improved moral. The standard has magic to
'smite the godless'.

Talking to a ghost we found the lance had been moved to near the birth
place of the creator of the order in the hills near Ordo, some 100 miles
south west of the church. We searched the church some more but found
little of interest.

Dillenger, Shoka and Kesha fly off to create rune portal from the river
specified by the ghost back to Cyprus.

## December 2 1992 AP

We heading up the river until it entered a cavern. From the cavern we
continued up a passage way, occasionally setting off traps until we
entered a domed room with a barrier across the center of it. To pass
through the barrier we must have been on a 'Quest for the Holy Lance'.
SF used geas on us all so we then were.

We came to a large 100' x 80' room. At one end are seven chairs with
creatures sitting on them. They are arthromorphisms of wrath, lust,
glutony, avaris, envy, sloth and pride. The lance was also in the room.

After a short combat most of the seven deadly sins were destroyed or
held and we managed to get the lance, where upon we return to Cyprus and
later back to Seagate.
