---
title: An Inconstant Moon
author: Ishamael
date: October 16 1993 AP
---


>  The major events from a Seagate Adventurers' Guild party on a mission
>  to seek and destory.

#  Introduction


##  Guild members on the Adventure


Kizmit
: Our E & Eye in the Sky who takes himself too seriously.

Aragorn
: A baby fighter (grunt) and the party military scientist.

Ishamael
: A dark celestial and yours untruly the completely objective scribe.

Everan
: A closet necromancer and the party leader.  A real pain (or is it agony) to be with.

Kishwa
: Another fighter, almost as stupid as his animals.

Jhiselle
: The party fire mage.  One hot chick.

Deadwood
: Simply dead useless (period).

#  Diary of Events


##  Day 1 - September 30 1993 AP


Leave the Guild with a patrol of Kazarlan Guards heading eastward.  On
the afternoon of the third of October we Slippery Rock to find a rural
village.  The village is actually a Wicker covern.  There we meet our
employer, an old man with green and grey eyes called Gatha.

Gatha says he is a member of a shape changing cult located at the
eastern edge of the lesser mountain ranges, some 1200 miles to the
north of here.  The cult is specifically located in a valley of some
20 square miles.

He says a while back one of the cult members when on a journey.  On
that journey he met a group of relegious people.  They give him a
stone which he later placed on the cultist's alter several weeks back.
This caused a ring of pain to extend from the alter of a mile radius,
driving many of the cultist mad.  Later a group of people flew into
the valley and occupied the area around the alter.  It not strictly
true about flying into the valley.  Both the valley and the alter have
wards which if passed through cause any flying magic to disipate,
centered around the alter with radii the valley and 100 feet
respectively.

Jhiselle traded some ancient crocodile teeth for six amulets of luck
which were distributed amoung the party members.  Gatha also agreed to
a payment of 5000 silver pennies per member for the removal of the
stone from the alter.

That evening we leave the village to a nice wooden glade.  There Gatha
creates a gateway into a pseudo environment with a path leading away.
Travelling through this environment took ten hours and considerable
effort.

##  Day 5 - October 4 1993 AP

We arrive in the predawn inside the cultists' valley.  Gatha leaves us
for a while until shortly after noon.  There we are given a sketch map
of the valley and to each member an amulet to stop various wards
triggering.

While travelling through the woods towards our campsight we see a
ghostly figure which is not undead.  I recognise it might be a rune
college visitation, having seen such a thing before.  Kizmit locates
the figure but after a minute and a half the target is lost.

After travelling for two hours we come to the edge of the one mile
circle of pain.  While there we are attacked by bow fire.  The result
of the combat was that we manage to kill two of the opposition but we
only manage to recover one of the corpses.  During the combat we
believed the circle of pain had managed to extend itself temperarily,
althought as it happened this was not at all true.

We managed to recover a broadsword, a bow, a set of leather armour and
combat clothing and twelve arrows.  The arrows turned out to be have
magical poison on them which is effective against people who have some
of their soul not present.

After another three hours of travel we reach our campsite at the Wolf
falls, a pleasant spot next to a small lake and waterfall.  Here is
where the body of the cultist who originally brought the stone into
the valley lay buried.

Deadwood butchers the dead body we retrieved from the fight for its
vital organs.  Something to do with necromantic rituals.  Not my scene
so I don't pay much attention.  He also manages to fail both his talk
to the dead spells that night.

##  Day 6 - October 5 1993 AP

We meet Gatha in the morning to go the the 'Wolf' healer who lives at
the foot of the waterfall.  There stands a small hut with an excelent
herb garden.  We are told by the occupier to return later during the
afternoon so we decide to go the the 'bear' foretellers.

After a two hour trek we reach the area of the bears where we are met
by an old man with white eyes.  The foretelling speaks of the stone
growing, having a feast in the near future, All Hallow's Eve (October
25), and causing an alteration or change to the alter.  We also note
that the valley is blessed for lunar aspected people.

After a surperb lunch we arrange to meet some of the people effected
by the curse.  This was in order to read their aura for the last magic
to effect on them.  One of them was a were salmon so we head down the
river for half an hour to meet it.

Along the way we see a small flying creature, some sort of imp devil.
Everan belived at that point it was a celestial mage, with the
opposition also having a rune mage and a fire mage.

After that we head back to the 'wolf' healer.  Kizmit says he managed
to locate the rune mage who is jumping around often.  We conclude that
they have a network of rune portals, all of which terminate close the
the center and at twelve equidistant points around the circumference
of the one mile circle.

Later we meet the healer and eight people effected by the curse.  I
managed to glean that they had been effected by necromantic agony.  In
hindsight this information may have been misleading.

After dinner we scout out one of the rune portal areas on the circle
edge.  Kizmit, using a wizard's eye, reported three people on watch,
each spending twenty seconds at the portal group before leaving for
the next group.  This equates to each person taking five minutes to
complete one circuit.  Every thirteenth point they only spend fifteen
seconds there and portal into the centre and back to the next point.

The three people on watch that evening where one in red leather armour
wearing a protection from weres and luck amulets and mismatched
earings.  We believed this to be the fire mage.  The two others were
common fighters each wearing chain mail, a bow with five poisoned and
fifteen silvered arrows, a small round shield and wielding a
broadsword.  They also wore a protection from weres amulet and two
rings each.

We found that are region ten feet in from the edge of the circle was
trapped with trip wires.  Our first plan was to return in the morning
and follow the people on watch, killing each individually.

That evening we manage to talk to the person who put the stone on the
alter.  He did not know much beyond he was compelled and we gain a
good estimate of the size and weight of the stone.

##  Day 7 - October 6 1993 AP

Head out at half five in the morning to ambush the opposition on
watch.  Kizmit warns us the familiar is out and about.  As it flew
above us it was shot down.  From the reading of the night's sky I
manage to discover that the familiar was a namer and hence any wards
around the alter have most likely been disipated.

The attack on the opposition failed after Kizmit and Jhiselle are
slept by magic.  We retreat back to our campsite for an uneventful
day.  Everan announces he is a necromancer and he was the cause of the
agony that occurred in our first encounter.

That evening we manage to talk to the dead opposition.  We learn that
there was in total fourteen people with only E & E, fire, rune and
namer colleges in their party, moreover that there was only four
mages.  The stone itself was capable of resurrection and other healing
and it is a holy or unholy relic.  It can be communicated with by
audio and people in the group require periodic contact with it.

##  Day 7 - October 6 1993 AP

Do another dawn raid.  This time we are confounded by a rank 30
darkness appearing within the one mile circle.  The darkness was
caused by a demonic talent.  At best we manage to force the opposition
to temperarily flee but because of the traps we still cannot enter to
persue.

That evening we decide to take out some of the rune portals around the
edge of the circle.  Using ball of fire we manage to destroy on of the
areas but are stymied by the rune mage creating illusions of rune
sticks.  We encounter a member of the opposition but are again stopped
by a rank 30 darkness.  The darkness adds ten ranks onto the effects
of all my spells.  During the encounter both Deadwood and Everan
backfire causing amnisia and deafness respectively.

##  Day 10 - October 9 1993 AP

Waited out the last two days while Deadwood's curse wore off and
Everan had his removed by one of the cultists.  Further talks with the
dead reveal where are no magical wards around the alter but there are
mechanical traps and the area immediately surrounding the alter is
trapped, including pit traps.

##  Day 11 - October 10 1993 AP

In the morning we fireball four rune areas around the circle and
return to camp for lunch.  During the afternoon we discuss a plan of
attack.  Because the E & E has locate we decide that stealth is of
little value and so a direct airbourne assult is agreed on.

At 11:00 pm all the party gets witchsights cast on them and
shadowwings at 11:45 pm.  At 11:55 pm we get necromantic counters from
Everan and Deadwood and leave at 11:56 to arrive almost on midnight.
While in flight we also get quickened from a couple of invested items.
Jhiselle, who was been carried by Kishwa, fireballed the their rune
nexis trapping three of the opposition on the perimeter while Everan
landed first and put down a agony.  We all landed in sucession shortly
after and a combat ensued.

##  Day 12 - October 11 1993 AP

As a result of the combat all the fighters, the E & E, a ranger with
good combat skills were killed outright.  The fire mage and the rune
mage were captured by the rune mage escaped by shadow walking.

Interrogation of the fire mage revealed the following: Flame, a member
of the mercenary guild from Sanctury was hired to investigate a group
of religious nutters with four others.  He believed they are been
hired by an opposing sect with both groups worshiping a demonic power.
While attempting to complete their mission it all went wrong and he
was captured.  He sold out to them and was chosen to go on this
mission.

The stone was flown towards the foot of the valley by Everan with
Aragorn for support while we collected all the loot and flew back to
the camp.  We all meet with Everan but later Kishwa and I go back to
our camp.

While with Everan we talk to the stone.  It is a three quarters demon
and holds people souls (or parts there of).  It master is from one of
the nine planes of hell.  It requires fifty whole souls to form a
gateway to bring its master into this world and it current had forty
eight.  It master was a lord of darkness so it had considerable dark
celestial powers.

The stone had been sucking the souls out of the alter, which was the
repository of the souls of previously living cult members.

##  Day 13 - October 12 1993 AP

After breakfast Kishwa, myself and Everan meet Gatha in the centre.
Because the stone holds many of the souls that previously resided in
the alter Gatha wanted it destoyed in the hope it would release the
souls trapped in it.  The solution arrived at was for Kizmit to fly
over the alter, and using locates for guidence, and drop the stone.

The first run succeeded and the stone was destroyed as it hit the
alter.  When it exploded it released waves for rank 50 darkness, rank
50 light, high ranked agony and extecy.  The remains of the stone came
to fourteen teardrop shaped objects.  Each one could hold a
sucessfully cast spell up to ten days and worked like an invested item
when triggered.

That evening Gatha transported us back to just outside the Slippery
Rocks covern.  From there we travelled back to Seagate to arrive back
on October 15 AP.
