\section{Character Generation}

1 Character Generation
There are six sections in Character Generation:
1.1 Characteristic Points
1.2 Race
1.3 Description
1.4 Aspect
1.5 Heritage
1.6 Starting Abilities \& Possessions

Sections 1.1 – 1.5 may be done in any order. Each
section is designed so that a player may choose
from a range of options or randomly generate their
character. Section 1.6 should be done last.

\subsection{Characteristic Points}

A character has 6 primary statistics which are
generated by allocating points from a total, and 4
secondary statistics which are either derived from
the primary statistics or are generated randomly.
The higher the number, the better the characteristic.

\subsubsection{Generating Characteristic Points}

The player may choose to allocate the primary statistics from a total
of 90 points or may roll 2D10 once against the following table. If
they choose to roll the result must stand.

Die Roll

Points Total

2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20

81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90 (default choice)
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99

Assigning Characteristic Points
This total of points needs to be spent on the following characteristics: Physical Strength, Manual
Dexterity, Agility, Magical Aptitude, Willpower \&
Endurance. These characteristics may change
during the game, and may be raised up to 5 points
through training, though not past the character’s
racial maximum.
The human range for each of these characteristics
is 5 – 25; this range is adjusted for non-humans
(see the Characteristic Modifier tables for the nonhuman races). These ranges represent the minimum
and maximum capabilities of the races. The player
should assign the points and then make any adjustment for race.
Prior to assigning the characteristic points, the
player should give some thought to what kind of
character they wish to have and what weapons,
spells, and/or skills are desired for the newly created individual. Some weapons require a great deal
of Physical Strength or Manual Dexterity, and the
player should be sure to assign enough points in
those areas to use the weapons of their choice. All
magical colleges require a minimum Magic Aptitude to join and the player should be aware of these
restrictions. Most skills do not have any special
requirements, but many give bonuses for exceeding
a minimum value in certain characteristics.
When the player has chosen the values for the
character, they must record them on a Character
Sheet. The total value of the six primary characteristics (before racial modifiers) must equal the
amount received in the Generating Characteristic
Points section; thus, a player cannot “save” Characteristic Points and assign them to characteristics

at a later date. The value of each of the six primary
characteristics must be recorded before any secondary characteristics are generated.
Generating Secondary Characteristics
Fatigue, Physical Beauty, Perception and Tactical
Movement Rate are secondary characteristics.
They may be modified if the character is nonhuman (see the Characteristic Modifier tables for
the non-human races).
Fatigue
The value of a character’s Fatigue is a direct function of their Endurance. The player enters the Fatigue value corresponding to the character’s Endurance value after their Endurance has been modified
for race.
Endurance Fatigue
3 or 4
16
5 to 7
17
8 to 10
18
11 to 13
19
14 to 16
20
17 to 19
21
20 to 22
22
23 to 25
23
26 to 27
24

Endurance and Fatigue values in bold type can be
achieved only by members of certain non-human
races.

From this point on, a change in a character’s Endurance value will not
affect their Fatigue value and vice-versa. Fatigue may be raised by up
to 5 points, though not past the character’s racial maximum.

Physical Beauty

The value of the Physical Beauty characteristic is generated randomly
by rolling 4D5 + 3. This characteristic can never be increased by
training.

Perception

A character’s perception value begins at 5. This may be trained up to
racial maximum.

Tactical Movement Rate

A character’s Tactical Movement Rate (TMR) is a direct function of
their Agility. It is based on the character’s Agility value and is
recalculated when Agility is modified by encumbrance and armour
penalties; see the TMR table (§58.2) for values.

\subsection{Race}

A player must choose the race of their character.  The majority of
people in Alusia are human, but the player may choose one of the
common nonhuman races: dwarf, elf, halfling, or orc.

If the player wishes their character to be a giant or shapechanger
they must roll D100. They may roll once per race and if the roll is
lower than the race chance \% they must take that race. If they fail
then the character must be of one of the common races.

If the player is attempting to be a shapechanger they must decide what
type of shapechanger they want prior to rolling (i.e. wolf, tiger,
bear or boar).  Race

Chance (%)

Hill Giant
06
Shapechanger 04

A player may wish to play one of the very rare sentient races. To do
so they must get the agreement of both the generating GM and a member
of the character tribunal. They will decide which of the common races
has the appropriate racial modifiers. For example Erelheine characters
are generated using the Elf option.  Humans learn faster than
non-humans. Learning is represented in game by spending Experience
Points (EP). Divide any experience points a character gains by the
“racial modifier” and then spend the result normally.

5

Race

Modifier

Dwarf
Elf
Halfling
Hill Giant
Human
Orc
Shapechanger

1.1
1.2
1.1
1.5
1.0
1.1
1.4

For every 25,000 Experience Points (EP) the character has spent towards the 'racial modifier' it is
lowered by .1 (but not below 1.0) or after 20 adventures (when PC reaches racial max), the EM
becomes 1 (whichever happens first). E.g. once a
giant has lost 25,000 EP to their race, their 'racial
modifier' is lowered to 1.4. Once they spend an
additional 25,000 EP on their new 'racial modifier'
of 1.4 it would become 1.3.
RM

Amt earned
that cost 25k

Amt spent
that cost 25k

1.5
1.4
1.3
1.2
1.1

75,000
87,500
108,333
150,000
275,000

50,000
62,500
83,333
125,000
250,000

Each race has a description of a stereotypical
member of the race and any special abilities and
characteristic modifiers that apply to a character of that race.
Dwarf
A dwarf is a short, bearded humanoid, usually
taciturn who frequents mountainous areas.
Description: Pride and attention to detail are important to dwarves. They form strong community
ties, and are distrustful of strangers, especially
those of other races. Their strongest antipathies are
towards orcs and elves. Although dwarves are
greedy by nature, they are essentially honest and
stand by their word. Dwarves covet precious stones
and metals, and appreciate fine, detailed workmanship. Dwarven warriors favour the axe as weapon.
Special Abilities
1. Dwarves’ close vision is exceptionally sharp, but
many have poor distance vision. They can see in
the dark as a human does at dusk. Their effective
range of vision in the dark is 50 feet under the open
sky, 100 feet inside manmade structures, and 150
feet inside caves and tunnels.
2. Dwarves can assess the value of and deal in
gems and metals as if they are a Merchant of Rank
5. If a dwarf character progresses in the Merchant
skill, their ability to assess the value of gems and
metals is five greater than their current Rank, to a
maximum of ten.
3. If a dwarf character is a Ranger specialising in
mountains or caverns, they pay half the EP cost
necessary to advance ranks.
4. A dwarf’s capacity for alcohol is twice that of a
human.
Characteristic

Modifier

Physical Strength
Agility
Endurance
Magical Aptitude
Willpower
Perception
Physical Beauty
Tactical Movement Rate
Starting Age:
Average Life Span:

+2
-2
+2
-2
+2
+1
-2
-1
20 +
125 – 150 years

Elf
An elf is a slim agile humanoid, who frequents
wooded areas.
Description: Elves are virtually immortal and generally take the long term view. They are insular,

1 CHARACTER GENERATION
indifferent to others and tend to be traditional.
Elves are great respecters of nature and learning.
Their Elders are repositories of great wisdom while
elvish youth are enthusiastic merry makers. Elven
warriors favour bow weapons and disdain metal
armour. Members of other races generally find
elves attractive.
Special Abilities
1. Elves have superior vision especially over long
distances or in poor lighting. An elf can see in the
dark as a human does on a cloudy day. Their effective range of vision in the dark is 150 feet under
the open sky, and 75 feet elsewhere.
2. If an elf character is a ranger specialising in
woods, they pay one-half the EP to advance ranks.
3. An elf receives a racial Talent which functions
in all respects as the Witchcraft Witchsight Talent.

Hill Giant
A hill giant is a huge, coarse featured humanoid,
who has no patience for laborious learning.
Description: Giants are lusty types, preferring
nothing better than to go through life brawling,
drinking, and wenching. They tend to gather together in a clan arrangement, building huge halls
(or steadings) in out-of-the-way locations. They are
not overly intelligent, and resent humans and elves
particularly. Giants enjoy riddling and bartering.
Giant warriors favour simple weapons scaled to
their size.
Special Abilities
1. A giant has infravision, which allows them to
see faint red shapes where living beings are located
in the dark. Their range of vision is 250 feet.
2. A giant’s magic resistance is increased by 10%.

4. An elf makes little or no noise while walking
and adds 10% to their chance to perform any activity requiring stealth.

3. Whenever a giant attempts minor magic, the GM
should increase the difficulty factor by one, making
it easier.

5. If an elf character takes the healer skill, the elf
pays three-quarters the EP to advance ranks,
though they cannot resurrect the dead.

4. Giants may use the giant weapons listed in the
Weapons Table (§56.1 ).

6. An elf is impervious to the special abilities of
the lesser undead.
7. If an elf character takes the courtier skill, the elf
pays one-half the EP to advance ranks.
Characteristic

Modifier

Physical Strength
Agility
Endurance
Magical Aptitude
Willpower
Perception
Physical Beauty
Tactical Movement Rate
Starting Age
Average Life Span

-1
+1
-1
+1
+1
+1
+2
+1
30 – 300 +
Circa 10,000 years

Halfling
A halfling is a short, cheerful humanoid, who
will be an active participant in village life.
Description: Halflings appreciate the good life
more than most; a successful halfling will arrange a
schedule of much sleep, good food, and relaxed
study or conversation. Halflings are shy around
other races, preferring to merge into the background. Amongst themselves they are a friendly
folk who form into small communities where everyone knows everyone else’s business. While
Halflings take their social responsibilities seriously, they are renowned for their practical jokes
and light fingers. Halflings are noted for their
tough, hairy feet and usually go barefoot. Halflings
avoid the rigours of military life but when forced to
defend themselves they favour small weapons.

Characteristic

Modifier

Physical Strength
Manual Dexterity
Agility
Endurance
Magical Aptitude
Willpower
Fatigue
Physical Beauty
Tactical Movement Rate
Natural Armour
Starting Age
Average Life Span

+7
-1
-2
+8
-1
-1
+1
-1
+3
+1
26 +
500 years

Human
Humans are by far the most common race on
Alusia, frequenting most areas and climes.
Description: Humans have a great diversity of
cultures, languages and sub-racial traits, such as
hair and eye colour or skin tone. Human behaviour
is an odd mix. They can be superstitious and distrustful of the unknown, but they are also insatiably
curious and look for new knowledge. Many also
seek personal fame and fortune as most human
social structures are less rigid than those of nonhumans and a person’s birth need not permanently
define their place in society. This odd combination
of attributes has led them to become great explorers and sailors, and they will venture boldly into
unexplored areas in search of knowledge and
wealth. Humans build great cities and are far more
welcoming of other races than most. Outside of
their own culture they are social chameleons, adept
at adapting their behaviour to match local customs.

Special Abilities
1. A halfling has infravision, which allows them to
see faint red shapes where living beings are located
in the dark. Their range of vision is 100 feet.

Special Abilities
1. Humans can ingratiate themselves with strangers
more readily than other races. A human character
has +10 to any reaction roll in an encounter with
sentient creatures.

2. A halfling adds 20% to their chance to perform
any activity requiring stealth.

Characteristic

Modifier

Starting Age
Average Life Span (varies
widely with wealth and culture)

16 +
40 – 90 years

3. If a halfling takes the thief skill, they pay half
the EP cost to advance ranks.
4. A halfling may drop jewellery down active
volcanoes without anyone thinking the worse of
them.
Characteristic

Modifier

Physical Strength
Manual Dexterity
Agility
Endurance
Magical Aptitude
Willpower
Physical Beauty
Starting Age
Average Life Span

-3
+3
+1
-2
-1
+1
-1
21 +
80 – 90 years

Orc
An Orc is a stoop-shouldered, surly humanoid
and a pack member by nature.
Description: Orcs are a cruel, violent folk, liking
nothing better than to loot and pillage. Individuals
test themselves against their peers, bullying anything weaker but cowering away from anything
stronger. A strong individual will form a pack
around them, and the pack leader’s word is law.
Orcs enjoy the sensual pleasures of life, and reduce
their already short life spans through hard living.
They have a robust digestion and will eat foods
that others turn their nose up at. Orc warriors fa6

vour the great axe and glaive. Orcs are considered
unattractive by other humanoid races.
Special Abilities
1. An orc’s eyes are highly light-sensitive. They
must decrease their chance of hitting a target with
Ranged Combat by 10% in daylight.
2. An orc has infravision, which allows them to see
faint red shapes where living beings are located in
the dark. Their range of vision is 150 feet.
3. Orcs are either back-stabbing scum or brutal
bully-boys. An orc may take one of either Assassin
Skill or Warrior Skill and pay three-quarters the EP
to advance in Ranks.
4. An orc’s seed is highly fertile. The orc and hybrid orc population increase mitigates against the
high orc fatality rate.
Characteristic

Modifier

Physical Strength
Endurance
Magical Aptitude
Willpower
Fatigue
Physical Beauty
Natural Armour
Starting Age
Average Life Span

+2
+1
-2
-2
+2
-4
+1
12 +
40 – 45 years

Shapechanger
Shapechangers are a hidden race amongst humans, with the ability to change into the form of
a particular animal.
Description: Shapechangers are identical in appearance to humans when not in animal form. They
are somewhat bestial in nature, adopting traits one
might expect from an anthropomorphised wolf,
tiger, bear or boar. There exists a love/hate relationship between humans and shapechangers:
shapechangers possess some degree of animal
magnetism, but, if discovered, can expect severe
treatment at the hands of humans. Shapechangers
are, on the whole, bitter towards humans, and are
not above using humans to their advantage. There
are very few ways to tell a shapechanger from a
human (e.g. they will be discomforted by wolfbane) and these vary by shapechanger type.
Shapechangers are a ruthless lot.
Special Abilities
1. A shapechanger can change from human to
animal form (or vice-versa) in 10 seconds during
daytime and 5 seconds during the night-time.
2. A shapechanger possesses a dual nature. While
in animal form, human inhibitions will be muted;
while in human form, animal instincts will be
dulled.
3. A shapechanger cannot be harmed while in
animal form, unless struck by a silvered weapon,
magic or by a being with a Physical Strength
greater than 25. Five Damage Points are automatically absorbed in the latter case.
4. A shapechanger will regenerate 1 Endurance
Point every 60 seconds while in animal form.
5. The player must devise a set of characteristics
for their animal form. Take the difference between
the average for each characteristic in animal and
human form, and modify the human characteristics
appropriately.
6. A shapechanger is automatically lunar aspected.
7. A shapechanger can remain in animal form for a
quarter of the night times the quarters of the moon
showing (i.e. at full moon they may remain in
animal form all night). During the day a
shapechanger can remain in animal form for one
hour times the quarter of the moon. A
shapechanger can make one set of transformations
times the quarter of the of the moon per day (i.e.
dawn to next dawn).
8. If a shapechanger is in animal form during the
day, there is a 1% cumulative chance for each 5

1 CHARACTER GENERATION
minutes they remain in animal form that they will
never be able to change back into human form.
Similarly, if the shapechanger exceeds the time
limits given above, there is a 1% cumulative
chance (per 5 minutes) of their not being able to
return to human form.

Optionally, some characteristics may be adjusted
for a female character. This would also modify her
appropriate racial maximums.

9. A shapechanger will be inconvenienced by those
wards which can be used against were-creatures.

Physical Strength
Manual Dexterity
Endurance

10. A shapechanger’s magic resistance is increased
by 5%.
11. If a shapechanger takes the courtier skill they
pay three-quarters the Experience Points necessary
to advance ranks.
Characteristic

Modifier

Physical Beauty
+1
Starting Age
16 +
Average Life Span 55 – 65 years
A separate set of characteristics must be generated
for the animal form (see Ability 5 above).

1.3 Description
This section covers height, weight, gender, primary
hand, and general description.
Height and Weight
A player should choose their character’s height and
weight. The character’s height and weight should
be chosen according to the player’s idea of the
character, with due regard to the character’s primary characteristics, race and background.
The following charts give a range of heights and
weights within which 90% of adventurers fall, and
the average values within that range. Please modify
your chosen height and weight according to gender
and racial adjustments as below.
Normal Base
Height

Weight

Range

5’3"
5’6"
5’9"
6’0"
6’3"
Adjustments

130
140
150
165
180
Height

100–170
110–185
120–200
130–220
145–240
Weight

Human Male
Human Female
Orc Male
Orc Female
Elf Male
Elf Female
Short Folk Base

+0"
-4"
-4"
-6"
+5"
+2"

100%
80%
110%
100%
80%
65%

Female Characteristic Modifier
Characteristic
Modifier

They may choose either right or left, or roll randomly. If they choose to roll, the result must stand.
The player rolls D5 and D10. If the D10 result is
greater, the character’s right hand is primary. If the
D5 result is higher, their left hand is primary. If the
two results are equal, the character is ambidextrous.
Description
The player will sometimes need to describe their
character and should therefore think about the
character’s physical appearance based on the generated characteristics. They should choose hair, eye
and skin colour (based on race and family background).

1.4 Aspects
The timing of a character’s birth orients them
towards one of several astrological influences, or
aspects. A character will benefit during the time
their aspect is powerful, and will suffer when the
opposite aspect is powerful.
The times of high noon and midnight are extremely
important when applying the effects of aspects.
The GM should allow characters to perform actions at precisely those instants, though the passage
of time must be properly monitored.
Generating an Aspect
The player may choose an Aspect as if they had
rolled any number up to 80, or roll D100 once
against the following table. If they choose to roll
on the table, any roll over 80 may be re-rolled.
If the character is joining one of the elemental
colleges the player may choose any aspect between
1 and 80 that is neutral to their college, or they may
roll.

Height

Weight

Range

3’9"
4’0"
4’3"
4’6"
4’9"
Adjustments

85
95
105
115
125
Height

65-110
75-125
85-140
95-155
105-170
Weight

Dwarf Male
Dwarf Female
Halﬂing Male
Halﬂing Female
Hill Giants Base

+0"
-2"
-12"
-13"

100%
90%
65%
60%

01–05
06–10
11–15
16–20
21–25
26–30
31–35
36–40
41–45
46–50
51–55
56–60
61–65
66–70
71–75
76–80
81–85
86–90
91–95
96-00

Weight

Range

8’4"
8’8"
9’0"
9’4"
9’8"
Adjustments

370
420
470
525
580
Height

295–490
335–555
375–625
420–700
465–780
Weight

Giant Male
Giant Female

+0"
-4"

100%
90%

Gender
A player may choose whether their character is
male or female. It is recommended the character be
the same gender as the player, as playing the opposite gender convincingly is difficult.

Aspect
Winter Air
Winter Water
Winter Earth
Winter Fire
Spring Air
Spring Water
Spring Earth
Spring Fire
Summer Air
Summer Water
Summer Earth
Summer Fire
Autumn Air
Autumn Water
Autumn Earth
Autumn Fire
Solar
Lunar
Life
Death

Seasonal Aspects
A character is affected by their seasonal aspect
during their aspect’s season and the opposite season. The following table lists the seasonal aspect
effects and when they apply.
Time

Primary Hand
A player must determine whether their character’s
Primary Hand is their right or their left. This determination affects which hand a weapon is held
during combat, and any penalties assigned for
attacking with a weapon in a secondary hand.

Die

Height

-2
+1
+1

poses Water. Ice and Celestial magic is not affected.

Effect

Midnight, Aspect’s Season
-10
Midnight, Equinox or Solstice of As-25
pect’s Season
Midnight, Opposite Season
+10
Midnight, Equinox or Solstice of Oppo+25
site Season
The effect is applied for 30 seconds before and
after midnight.
Solar and Lunar Aspects
A character of solar or lunar aspect is affected by
their aspect at high noon and midnight. The following table lists the Solar aspect effects, and when to
apply them.
Time

Effect

Noon
-5
Midnight
+5
Noon, Summer Solstice
-25
Midnight, Winter Solstice +25
Lunar aspected characters gain opposite bonuses
and penalties for the same times. The effect is
applied for 10 seconds before and after high noon
or midnight. If the sky is cloudy, the effect may be
reduced to a minimum of +/1 and 5.
Life and Death Aspects
Life and Death aspected people are affected by the
creation and destruction of life force.
The following table lists the Death aspect effects,
and when to apply them.
Event

Range

Aspect

Effect

Birth of mammal
Birth of humanoid
Birth of close relative†
Death of mammal
Death of humanoid
Death of close relative†
†A close relative is no
cousin.

100’
250’
500’

Death
Death
Death

+5
+10
+25

50’
125’
250’

Death
Death
Death

-5
-10
-25

more distant than a second

Life aspected characters gain opposite bonuses and
penalties for the same times. Deaths are noncumulative (only one can be in effect at a given
time), though births are cumulative. A stillbirth
does not affect a life or death aspected character. A
resurrection is treated as a birth.
A death event is applied for as many seconds as the
effect range in feet. A life event is applied for 3
times as long.
A female life aspected character will suffer no pain
after giving birth, and will be as healthy and active
as she was before she became pregnant.
Light and Dark Aspects
All living creatures have an additional celestial
Light or Dark Aspect. This is fully explained in an
addendum to the College of Celestial Magics
(§19.8).

1.5 Heritage
This section is relevant to humans, primarily from
the Western Kingdom and Cazarla, and should be
adapted for other races or regions.

Effects of Aspects
Apart from elemental aspects, all modifiers apply
to percentile rolls, not base chances.
Elemental Aspects
Characters gain a bonus of 1% on the Base Chance
of performing any magic of the same College as
their elemental aspect, and a penalty of -1% on the
opposed College. Air opposes Earth and Fire op7

Social Status
The “social status” is that of the character’s parent(s), usually the father. The table does not represent the population, merely the proportion of backgrounds from which accepted Adventurer’s Guild
applicants originally come. Most social classes are
present in a variety of environments (city,
town/village, rural, court, castle/stronghold, maritime). A player may choose any social category in

1 CHARACTER GENERATION
the 01-80 range for the character’s background or
roll; however, any such dice-roll must be accepted.
In general, the higher the number rolled, the higher
the social status within each band. A roll of 40-90
optionally may indicate a respectably retired exadventurer.
Die

Social Status

01–14
15–20
21–29
30–44
45–54
55–70
71–84
85–94
95–98
99–00

Trash / Criminal
Bonded
Skilled retainer
Goodman
Master
Military
Gentry
Lesser Noble
Merchant-prince
Greater Noble

Explanation of Classes
Trash/Criminal No legitimate employment.
Example

Thug, body-snatcher, bandit, pirate, beggar.

Bonded There is no slavery in the Baronies. This is
the next best thing: enforced servitude to one master for a long period [up to life], through birth,
contract, or debt.
Example
Serf, villain, unskilled or semi-skilled
servant, labourer, indentured apprentice or journeyman in
a craft or trade guild, dependent artisan contracted to a
master, lay member of an accepted religious community,
ordinary soldier or sailor.

Skilled Retainer Voluntarily employed person,
physically and legally capable of seeking a position
elsewhere. Owns the tools of the trade and has
other, limited possessions. Usually works under the
direction of a goodman or master. Occasionally an
itinerant artisan of low status.
Example
Clerk, court musician, religious acolyte,
freeborn shepherd or farm hand, merchant’s assistant,
family chaplain, tinker, fisher.

Goodman [Goodwife, Goody] Head of a household: more possessions and commitments than a
mere retainer, comparatively independent. Usually
leases or owns a smallholding (if in the countryside) or a few rooms (if in a town). Much contact
with social peers and superiors. Often employs
skilled retainers. Includes itinerant professionals
and artisans of high status.
Example
Miller, pilot, established artisan, minor
trader, innkeeper, accredited witch, priest in an accepted
temple, shop owner, poor freeman-farmer, forester, gamekeeper, itinerant or privately employed alchemist, healer,
magician or blacksmith.

Master: [Mistress, Mother] Like a goodman, but
with a larger establishment, more employees, more
commitments to subordinates and equals. Tied to
one place as direct contact with, and obligations to,
social superiors and Guilds may make impolitic
any relocation or other changes in social conduct,
despite theoretical liberties and rights.
Example
Guild master of a smaller craft/trading
guild, or councillor in a more powerful one, wealthy
freeman farmer, professional (alchemist, healer etc) trading publicly, with own shop and apprentices, Alphonse the
famous chef, a Ducal Kapellmeister, high-priest of an
accepted temple, captain-owner of a trade ship, mayor of a
medium town.

Military A socially sanctioned, trained fighter or
skilled ancillary. This includes sergeants and lowborn lesser officers (lieutenants, etc); high-ranking
officers are ex officio gentry.
Example
Town guardsman, skilled scout or military
spy, army blacksmith, (legal) mercenary captain.

Gentry By birth or service entitled to a coat of
arms: significant social or military duties. There
are often many social gradations of gentry not
comprehensible to persons outside that class. Often
possesses an estate or “independent means” but is
not of lordly rank; such persons may, technically,
be employed (but usually to a lord, or in service to
their country). May have difficulty ensuring all
children have an acceptable start in society (especially in larger families).

Example
Knight, country squire, beneficed parson,
port-reeve, courtier of significance, respected \& influential
magician, judicial officer of a town or district, tax farmer,
non-noble army or navy officer (generally Captain \& up),
cadet member of a noble family.

Lesser Noble Of lordly rank. Similar to the gentry,
but definitely a cut above. Normally owes feudal
service to, or through, a greater noble.
Example
Non-independent Baron, Lord Admiral of a
small navy, General, ordinary Abbot or other Head of an
established, accepted, religious house, former gentry
ennobled for extraordinary or personal services to a great
noble or royalty.

Merchant-Prince Extremely wealthy city-based
merchant, head of an extended trade/family. Controls a nationally significant trade-empire and / or
monopoly. Has significant power in the local
guilds. Extensive resources (especially in his/her
home city), with contacts and enemies in several
countries. Capable of ordering actions deemed
criminal in less influential personages. On a roll of
98, the family head is the character’s parent; on
95–97, the head is a little more distant (perhaps
uncle or cousin).
Example
Owner of a trade-fleet, trader with a national monopoly on a commodity (e.g. silk, wine), Guild
master of a powerful guild.

Greater Noble Ruler of a minor country, or head
of one of the “Great” families in a larger country.
Will have several estates and titles. Usually has
subordinates of lordly rank. Children may have
courtesy titles.
Example
An independent Baron, Marshall of a
Duke’s or independent Count’s armies, Bishop, Abbot of a
mother-abbey, Marshall or vicar-general of a powerful
order, Count within a duchy, Lord Admiral of a maritime
nation.

Greater Noble and Merchant-Prince families impact seriously on the campaign; the generating GM
may need time to consult with other GMs before
the character’s background is finalised. Characters
who wish to retain an acknowledged, good socialstanding may have to devote time and money to
maintain their position by indulging in appropriate
behaviour - noblesse oblige.

their fellow adventurers to unnecessary risks arising from their backgrounds.
In most cases, achievement begets amnesty. A serf
who has spent a year and a day in a town becomes
a freeman; a now wealthy prodigal is welcomed
back into the family fold.

1.6 Starting Abilities and Possessions
This section covers abilities and possessions a
character has prior to starting life as an adventurer.
None of the experience points awarded in this
section are adjusted by any racial experience modifiers but the player must use their character’s race
and heritage as a guideline to the allocation or
choices they make. Except where noted, the normal
acquisition and ranking rules apply to the spending
of experience points. This section must be started
after all other sections are completed, and each
sub-section must be completed in order.
Language Skills
Every character knows their native language, the
Alusian trade language (Common) and possibly
another language. A Guild member will be literate
in at least one language and literacy is required to
learn magic.
The player should get the GM’s assistance to determine what their character’s native language is
and then choose one of the following options for
their starting language skills:
• Option A Rank 8 and literate in either native
language or common, Rank 6 in the other of native
language or common, Rank 4 in any other common
language.
• Option B Rank 8 and literate in either native
language or common, Rank 7 and literate in the
other of native language or common, Rank 1 in any
other language.
• Option C Rank 9 and literate in either native
language or common, Rank 6 and literate in the
other of native language or common.

Birth Order
Players should now choose their birth order, or roll
on the following table. Note that it is unlikely that
an heir will go adventuring (at least not without
active encouragement from the next-in-line).

Adventuring Skills
A character starts with Rank 0 in the Adventuring
skills of Horsemanship, Climbing, Swimming and
Stealth. The player now receives 1250 experience
points that may be spent on improving these skills.
Any experience points left over are lost. They also
gain Rank 0 Flying, but may not raise it at any
stage during Character Generation.

Die

Birth Order

The possible combinations are:

1
2–3
4
5
6
7–8
9
0

1st or 2nd
3rd
4th
5th
6th
7th
8th or later
bastard

Horsemanship,
Climbing and
Swimming

Disinheritance
Beginning characters never start with an estate,
magic possessions, or other “real” wealth. For
game reasons, characters seldom inherit while
actively adventuring. Most classes will happily
pass over an adventurer in favour of more deserving and capable stay-at-home siblings. If the heir or
heiress cannot be passed over (e.g. a noble estate)
and the player does not wish to retire the character,
a trusted kinsman or tenant must be appointed as
trustee or warder, to administer and enjoy the inheritance until it is reclaimed.
A noble or wealthy parent may disown adventuring
children either through disfavour, or for mutual
protection. A beginning character doesn’t want to
be set upon by family enemies, and no parent
wants the social stigma of refusing to pay a ransom. The guild fully supports such characters
adventuring under an alias, just as it also supports
gifted adventurers who fled legal restraints in order
to join the guild (e.g. a runaway serf turned mage).
Both classes do have the obligation not to expose
8

(in any order)

Stealth

4, 0, 0
3, 0, 0
3, 2, 1
2, 2, 0
2, 2, 2

0
1
0
1
0

Mage or Non Mage?
The player must decide whether the character will
be a magic user or not. (This choice can be made at
any time during character generation).
Mage
If the character is to be a magic user then the
player must choose a college of magic for the
character to belong to. Remember that there is a
minimum Magical Aptitude requirement for each
college.
College

MA

Naming Incantations
Mind
Fire
Air
Ice
Illusion
Celestial
Earth
Bardic

1
11
12
13
13
13
14
15
16

1 CHARACTER GENERATION
E\&E
16
Necromancy
16
Binding \& Animating 17
Water
18
Witchcraft
18
The character now receives all of the general
knowledge abilities of their college including talents, general knowledge spells, general knowledge
rituals, both counterspells, the purification ritual
and ritual spell preparation.
The player should list these on their character
sheet.
Non Mage
If a player decides that their character will not be a
magic user then they receive 6500 experience
points to be spent in the following order:
1. 2500 must be spent on either 1 point of Fatigue
or 3 points of Perception.
2. The character must acquire one new skill at rank
2, and may acquire a second new skill at no more
than rank 1. The Warrior skill may not be chosen at
this time.

3. The character must acquire one weapon at rank
2, and may acquire up to two weapons at no more
than rank 1.
4. The player may save up to 500 points to spend
later. The player must spend any remaining points
on any of:
• 1 rank in any known adventuring skills
• more ranks in any known languages
• more perception.
Any remaining points (other than the permissible
500) are lost.
Background Experience
A character now chooses any one Artisan skill at
Rank 0. This reflects knowledge gained through
childhood and must be appropriate to their family
background.
They also receive 2500 Experience Points which,
together with any left over from the non-mage
generation, can be spent freely.
At this time the character may acquire any one new
skill at Rank 0 for the cost of only 100 EP (rather
than the usual cost).

9

If there is any EP remaining it may be saved for
spending later in the game.
Background Possessions
The character will have two sets of clothing of a
quality appropriate to their family background.
They also have goods up to the value of 500 sp
which may be chosen from the Basic Price List in
the Players Guide. Up to 50 sp may be saved as
cash.
Modified Agility and Manual Dexterity
The player should calculate any agility modifiers
from the weight of their possessions and any armour penalties; see the Encumbrance Table (§58.1)
for values. They should then calculate their modified TMR from this value, see the table (§58.2) for
values. If the character uses a shield, they should
modify their Manual Dexterity as well.
Finishing the Character
The player must choose a name for their character.
They should enter every piece of relevant data onto
their Character Sheet, and calculate base chances
and other variables. The generating GM will check
it, and then sign \& date it as complete.

2 EXPLANATION OF CHARACTERISTICS

2 Explanation of Characteristics
This section is an explanation of a character’s
characteristics and how they are used in the game.
All characteristics are calculated when the character is generated but Adventurers in a world of
magic can expect them to change from time to
time. A “temporary” change indicates an increase
or decrease of limited duration to the value of a
characteristic; a “permanent” change indicates an
increase or decrease of indefinite duration to the
value of a characteristic.
The first six characteristics are the primary characteristics. These can be increased temporarily by
magic or permanently by training (expenditure of
experience points), and can be decreased temporarily by magic or injury, or permanently by injury to
the character. These primary characteristics can
never be trained more than 5 above their starting
value, and never above racial maximum, except by
unusual magical means.
All other characteristics are secondary characteristics. The manner in which a secondary characteristic can be changed will be covered in the appropriate explanation.
Generally, a high characteristic value indicates a
character’s ability to perform a certain task well,
while a low value indicates a relative lack of such
ability. A characteristic’s effect is almost always
translated into numerical terms for the purposes of
resolving action during play. Adventurers generally
have higher characteristics than normal people in
the world, that is what makes them heroes after all.
Effects of Characteristics
A character develops specific skills during the
game, and their characteristics influence their base
chances with these skills. However there are also
many feasible tasks that a character may wish to
perform without having a specific skill to do so.
The GM then uses the most appropriate characteristic to generate a base chance to perform that task.
Difficulty Factors (Characteristic Multipliers)
When a player declares that their character will
attempt a task which the GM acknowledges as
dependent upon a particular characteristic, the GM
assigns the task a difficulty factor. This difficulty
factor will be a number from 1/2 through to 5.
The greater the difficulty factor value, the easier a
task will be to perform.
The player multiplies the difficulty factor by the
appropriate characteristic, arriving at the percentage chance of the character performing the task.
The maximum base chance is (70 + characteristic +
difficulty factor)%. The player then rolls D100,
and if the roll is less than or equal to the percentage
then the character has successfully performed the
task. If the roll is greater than the percentage, the
character has failed. If the roll fails by at least the
value of the characteristic or exceeds the maximum
base chance, the character has failed miserably and
may have injured themselves. The GM may wish
to determine the extent of the injury by how much
the roll exceeds the percentage plus the characteristic.

• Lifting heavy or awkward objects
Example
Consider the sturdiness of the object and
the implement being used to break it for the former, and
consider the weight and bulk of the object plus the purchase afforded the character for the latter.

2.2 Manual Dexterity (MD)
Manual Dexterity is a measure of a character’s
control with their hands. The Manual Dexterity
characteristic represents the character’s hand-toeye co-ordination, the speed at which the character
can perform a complex task with their hands, and
the ability to manipulate their hands.
Specific Influences
• Minimum MD requirement for weapons
• Thievery
• Strike Chance in Combat
Generic Uses
• Handling dangerous substances
• Fine handicrafts \& other delicate tasks.
Example
Consider the delicacy of the task when a
character seeks the careful manipulation or removal of an
object.

2.3 Agility (AG)
Agility is a measure of a character’s ability to
manoeuvre their whole body and their speed of
movement. The Agility characteristic represents
the character’s litheness of body, the speed at
which the character can run, and their ability to
dodge with or contort their body.
Specific Influences
• Tactical Movement Rate
• Defence

2.6 Endurance (EN)
Endurance is a measure of the punishment a character’s body can absorb before the character becomes unconscious, sustains mortal wounds, or
dies. The Endurance characteristic represents the
character’s capacity to withstand wounds, their
resistance to disease and infection and their rate of
recovery from same, and directly affects their
ability to over-exert themselves.
Specific Influences
• Starting Fatigue
• Damage capacity
• Stunning from damage
Generic Uses
• Resisting poison, infection \& disease

2.7 Fatigue (FT)
Fatigue is a measure of a character’s physical and
mental fitness. The Fatigue characteristic represents the degree to which the character can exert
themselves before becoming exhausted, the number of minor cuts and bruises they can take before
their abilities are affected, and the mental energy
that can be used to cast spells. This characteristic
directly reflects a character’s current level of tiredness as it is reduced temporarily with any strenuous
activity and restored to normal with rest. Fatigue
may be permanently increased by training up to 5
points or to racial maximum.

• Minor damage capacity

• Most physical skills

• Spell casting energy

Generic Uses
• Manoeuvring
Example
Consider speed, distance, and complexity
of the manoeuvre, as well as the nature of any obstacles or
features they are using.

2.4 Magical Aptitude (MA)
Magic Aptitude is a measure of a character’s ability to harness and direct magical energies. The
Magic Aptitude characteristic represents the character’s control over the flow of mana (the stuff of
magic), and their ability to remember spells and
rituals.
Specific Influences
• Magic Colleges have a minimum MA requirement
• Cost of training magic
• Base chances of magical skills
Generic Uses
• Noticing arcane mana effects

2.5 Willpower (WP)

Physical Strength is a measure of a character’s
muscle coordination and strength. The Physical
Strength characteristic represents the brute force a
character can exert from the thews of their arms,
the thrusting power of their leg muscles, and their
lift and weight capacity.
Specific Influences
• Effects of weight carried

Specific Influences
• Magic resistance

• Minimum PS requirement for weapons

• Fear resistance

• Damage

• Concentration checks to perform magic

Generic Uses
• Breaking objects

• Persevering with boring or dangerous tasks

Specific Influences
• Sustained activity

• Speed in combat

Willpower is a measure of a character’s self control
of mind and body, especially in stressful situations.
The Willpower characteristic represents a character’s ability to concentrate, their ability to resist the
imposition of another’s will upon their own, and
the degree to which their will can be used to
counter their instincts (when, for instance, the
character might be attempting an action which
could be suicidal).

2.1 Strength (PS)

Generic Uses
• Resisting suffering

• Recovering from being stunned

10

Generic Uses
• Ignoring cold
• Coping with missing meals or sleep

2.8 Physical Beauty (PB)
Physical Beauty is a measure of a character’s exterior attractiveness (or repulsiveness) as perceived
by the humanoid races. Physical Beauty is a characteristic representing a character’s appearance
compared to the aesthetic standards of the main
sentient races. It is in no way a reflection of a
character’s personality. Specific reactions to PB
are also influenced by the observer’s race and
gender. The Physical Beauty values for monsters
describe how that monster appears to a character,
and not to another monster of the same race. Physical Beauty can be increased or decreased temporarily by magic, and decreased permanently by disfigurement. It cannot be increased by training.
Specific Influences
• Reaction rolls
Generic Uses
• Influencing NPCs

2.9 Perception (PC)
Perception is a measure of a character’s intuition
developed as a result of their experience. The Perception characteristic represents the character’s
ability to note peculiarities in a given situation,
their ability to deduce a person’s habits or customs
from scant information, and their general knowledge of the world.
The Perception value can be increased or decreased
temporarily, and can be increased permanently
through training up to racial maximum. Magic,
certain natural or alchemical preparations, and the
character’s condition can cause a temporary increase or decrease in the Perception value.

2 EXPLANATION OF CHARACTERISTICS
Specific Influences
• Detecting ambushes or traps

• Remembering vague information

• Detecting hidden things

• Making connections between new clues and
previous knowledge

• Initiative

2.10 Tactical Movement Rate (TMR)

Generic Uses
• Picking up information from conversation or
observation

The Tactical Movement Rate is the fastest speed a
character can move in combat. A character’s Tactical Movement Rate (TMR) characteristic is based
on their Agility and influenced by any weight
carried or restricting clothing. It may be temporar-

• Peripheral vision
• Noticing things out of the ordinary

11

ily modified by magic or injury, but cannot be
trained.
Specific Influences
• Distance moved in combat
Generic Uses
• comparative speeds

3 RANKING

3 Ranking
Experience points are required to advance in anything. Time spent training is required to increase
proficiency in spells, skills and weapons. Adventuring time is required to advance in characteristics
and talents.
EP is spent as per below but note the following.
• Talents may be ranked only once per game adventuring week.
• Weapon skills take 1 week of training to reach
Rank 0, and 2 weeks × (rank to be achieved) to
improve.
• Skill ranks 8, 9, and 10 must be ratified by a GM
and in general required significant use of the skill.
• The character may rank any combination of two
things at the same time, providing the character
does not rank magic (i.e. spells or rituals) at the
same time as non-magic (i.e. weapons or skills).
• Time spent training for a particular rank of an
ability may be interrupted by other activity (including being on adventure). However training for a
given rank must be resumed within 6 months of
starting training for that rank.
• Namers may rank 1 name in addition to other
forms of ranking. They may also substitute ranking
names for ranking any single magical or nonmagical ability; ie Namers may rank 1 name while
learning two related abilities, 2 names with one
ability or, if doing no other ranking, 3 names at
once.
All adventurers can learn any skill or weapon, and
any magic within their college. Learning costs EP,
time and money. The following can be ranked:
Skills, Weapons, Spells, and Languages, Names,
Rituals, Talents, Adventuring Skills and Characteristics.

3.1 Characteristics
A Characteristic may only be raised by five points
over its starting value to a maximum of 25 (modified by racial bonuses / penalties), except Fatigue,
and Physical Beauty (which cannot be raised). The
exception to this is Perception, which can be raised
to racial maximum.
To calculate the maximum for Fatigue, take the
racial maximum for Endurance and find the maximum Fatigue (see table §1.1). For example, orcs
have +1 to EN so their maximum EN is 26, hence
their maximum FT is 24 from the chart. Then apply
any additional racial modifiers to FT. For example,
orcs gain +2 to FT so their maximum is 24 + 2 =
26.
A characteristic may only be increased once per
adventuring session (if a session took more than
the normal session length, then this rule should be
applied appropriately). If a character did not adventure during a session then they cannot raise any
characteristics, and if they participated on more
than one adventure during the session, then they
can still only raise a characteristic by one. Any or
all of the characteristics may be raised simultaneously if permissible.

If a character has lost characteristic points for any
reason, they may buy back as many points as they
wish in addition to any
normal increase. The cost of buying a characteristic
point back is the same as buying an extra point (see
table §55.3).

Achieving Ranks 8, 9 and 10 is difficult. You must
find and complete a special task relating to your
skill (although of less stature in the case of Artisan
skills), with the assistance of a GM, for each of
these Ranks. Rank 10 is the maximum achievable
Rank in all Skills.

3.6 Adventuring Skills

3.2 Talents
For each week of actual, out in the field, adventuring, you can rank each of your talents once. No
training time is required to rank Talents. Like
Spells and Rituals, each Talent has an EM. No MA
discounts apply to any Talents.

3.3 Spells
If you are an Adept (i.e. cast magic), you can rank
your spells. Each spell has an EM, or Experience
Multiplier. This is multiplied by the Rank that you
wish to achieve, to give a total EP cost. If the
Adept has MA > 15, (MA - 15) × 5% of the EP
cost of General Spells may be discounted. Training
time for spells is (Rank to be achieved) days.
Learning a new spell to Rank 0 takes (EM / 100
rounded up + 1) weeks, but no experience points.
See the Players Guide for availability of special
knowledge spells. You cannot have more spells
and rituals below rank 6 than your MA characteristic. Rank 20 is the Maximum Rank achievable with
any Spell.

Adventuring Skills are skills used every day by
adventurers to survive, and thus are continually
honed. These skills include Horsemanship, Swimming, Flying, Stealth and Climbing.
If you have extensively used an adventuring skill
while on adventure, you may rank this skill without
any time requirements. Otherwise, Ranking time is
as per normal skills.
Adventurers are assumed to start off with Rank 0
or more in all these skills, unless specifically told
otherwise. The EP cost for ranking each Adventuring Skill is listed in table §55.2. The maximum
rank in each of these Skills is 10. No special task is
required for Rank 8 and above.

3.7 Languages
Languages have the same time requirement as
normal skills, except that the time for Rank 0 in a
language is only 1 week, and no special task is
required for Rank 8 and above.

Rituals are learnt and ranked just like spells, except
that Ranking time is (Rank to be achieved) weeks,
rather than days. MA discount applies to General
Knowledge Rituals.

The undiscounted EP costs are set out in Table
§55.2. Note that knowing related languages or the
Philosopher Skill may grant an EP discount. The
maximum total EP discount applicable is 50%,
regardless of how many individual discounts are
available to the character.

3.5 Skills

3.8 Weapons

All skills are assumed to be unranked (i.e. unknown) initially. The first level of competence is
Rank 0, and will take eight weeks to learn. Each
subsequent rank will take that number of weeks to
reach (eg. to get to Rank 7 from Rank 6 will take 7
weeks). The EP cost for ranking each Skill is listed
in table §55.2. Some skills require minimum Characteristic requirements to Rank, or impose EP
penalties (or discounts) for exceptional Characteristics.

All weapons are assumed to be unranked initially.
Rank 0 in a weapon takes 1 week. All higher ranks
take 2 × Rank weeks. Weapons have individual
maximum Ranks. EP costs are detailed in 55.1
Weapons. All Weapons require minimum PS and
MD Characteristics. If you do not fulfil both requirements, you may not rank a weapon. You may
not get an EP discount for training, but if no trainer
is available, you may not increase in Rank. The
cost of a trainer is 10 × Rank squared (minimum

If the character is taught by someone of greater
Rank in the skill, decrease any Experience Point
cost by 10%. If the character learns from a book
(the availability of which is up to the GM), verbal
descriptions or practices with someone of equal or
lesser Rank in the skill, any Experience Point cost
is unmodified. If the character practices with no
useful outside assistance, any Experience Point
cost is increased by 25%. If training is done at the
Guild, it costs 150sp × (Rank to be achieved,
minimum 1).

1) silver pennies.

3.4 Rituals

Some skills include specific abilities (subskills)
which are learnt when increasing your rank in the
skill. It is possible in some skills to learn subskills
by spending time and EP without increasing your
rank. Knowledge has a one-off cost. In both cases,
see table §55.2 and each skill concerned.

12

3.9 Names
Anyone can learn Names, but only Namers can
Rank them beyond Rank 0. Once acquired, an
Individual or Generic Name may be studied and
fully learnt. For Ranking Names beyond Rank 0
see the College of Naming Incantations (§17.3).
• Learning a Name replaces ranking any other
single magical or non-magical ability.
• Generic Names take one day of study to be
learned (i.e. Rank 0).
• Individual Names take one week of study to be
learned.

4 HEALTH AND FITNESS

4 Health and Fitness
A character’s Fatigue will vary depending upon the
amount of food and rest they get compared to their
activities.
A character’s Endurance may be temporarily reduced by lack of sustenance, extreme activities,
damage, or illness.

4.1 Eating and Drinking
The amount of food and water required per day is
dependent on many factors. These include the
person (endurance, weight, build, metabolic rate
and race) and the level of activity they are involved
in (light, medium, hard or strenuous).
On average 1 lb of food and 2 pints of water per
day is required.

4.2 Starvation
Starvation occurs when a character does not have
at least 1 nourishing meal a day.
If a character is starved they will have their Fatigue
maximum and Endurance temporarily reduced by 1
each day. This decrease will last until the character
starts receiving proper nourishment.
A starved character’s Fatigue maximum and Endurance will recover by 1 point each day, after the
first, that they receive proper nourishment

4.3 Dehydration
Dehydration occurs when a character does not have
at least 2 pints of water a day. This amount will
increase in high temperatures by 1 pint per 10
degrees above 20.
If a character is dehydrated they will have their
Fatigue maximum and Endurance temporarily
reduced by 5 each day. If the character receives
part of their water requirement, the penalty is reduced. For every 20% (or fraction) less than the
daily requirement they lose 1 from FT max and
EN. This decrease will last until the character starts
receiving adequate quantities of water.
A dehydrated character’s Fatigue and Endurance
maximums will recover by 5 points each day, after
the first, that they receive adequate quantities of
water.

4.4 Tiredness and Rest
Characters have a tendency to lose Fatigue points
on adventure. A fatigued character must rest to
recover Fatigue points. Sleep, as might be expected, is the best way to become refreshed, but
food and rest will also help.
The Fatigue point loss and recovery rates given in
these rules assume that the character is in good
health and is well fed. If the character is not in
good condition, the GM may adjust the effects of
activity, the effects of weight carried and the rate
of recovery.
Fatigue Loss
A character can lose Fatigue points when they
engage in any activity more stressful than a leisurely walk.
There are four classes of activity which can fatigue
a character:
1. Light Exercise includes moderate to brisk walking, riding slowly or at a moderate pace on a docile
mount, etc.
2. Medium Exercise includes jogging, riding on a
cantering mount, light construction or precision
work, etc.
3. Hard Exercise includes paced running, riding at
a gallop, hard manual labour, etc.
4. Strenuous Exercise includes constant sprinting,
breakneck riding, and generally those actions with
which the character pushes their body to its practical limits.
It is possible for a character’s actions to be more
taxing than Strenuous Exercise, which requires

superhuman exertion. This Fatigue loss from this
activity will be determined by the GM.
A character’s degree of exertion is judged each
hour.
The GM should indicate to players the level of
exertion of their activities (averaging where necessary). If the GM gives consistent guidelines the
players will be able to keep an ongoing track of
fatigue loss.
Encumbrance
A character is limited in the weight they can bear,
and may become fatigued if they engage in exercise.
The Fatigue and Encumbrance Table (§58.1) lists
the maximum weight a character may carry.
A player must determine the total weight their
character is carrying if the character is to engage in
light or more stressful exercise for a significant
length of time during a day.
When an entity has a Physical Strength value
greater than 40, the GM divides that value by 40.
Multiply the quotient by the entry for 40, and add
the entry corresponding to the remainder to determine that entity’s capabilities.
Damage
A character may lose Fatigue by being damaged.
This may be recovered naturally or by being
healed.
Spell Casting
A character may lose Fatigue by using magical
abilities. This may be recovered naturally but may
not be healed.
Calculating Current Fatigue
The Fatigue status of a character only needs to be
calculated before they enter into combat, wish to
perform magic or if they perform fatiguing activities for long periods. To calculate current Fatigue
use the Fatigue and Encumbrance Table (§58.1):
1. Cross-reference the character’s Physical
Strength and the weight they are carrying.
2. Read down this column until it intersects with
the row corresponding to the character’s rate of
exercise.
3. Multiply the resulting number (Fatigue points
lost per hour) by the number of hours at this exercise level.
4. Perform this calculation once for each time one
(or more) of the three factors changes.
5. Add each separate subtotal to determine the total
Fatigue points expended by the character so far.
Exhaustion
If a character’s Fatigue point total is reduced below
zero, they are exhausted. An exhausted character is
limited in the activities they may choose to do and
the performance of their abilities is adversely effected. Their Fatigue is considered zero for the
purposes of combat or magic use.
A character may choose to exert themselves after
their Fatigue points are reduced to zero until they
have expended a nominal one-half their initial
Fatigue points (round down). When they reach this
limit they will collapse unless they succeed a 1 ×
WP check every (2 × Endurance) minutes.
An exhausted character must sleep for as much
time as they were performing any exercise while
exhausted before they may recover any Fatigue
points.
If an exhausted character wishes to engage in
Strenuous Exercise, they must succeed a separate 1
× WP check.
Exhaustion Modifier
The character must subtract 1 / half hour (or fraction) of exhaustion to any base chance.
13

4.5 Fatigue Recovery
A character may regain Fatigue points naturally by
eating a hot meal or resting.
A character may never have a Fatigue total greater
than their Fatigue Characteristic.
A character naturally recovers Fatigue points as
follows:
Activity

Fatigue points / Hour

Eat Hot Meal 2
Relaxation
1
Nap
2
Sleep
3
1. A character may benefit from a hot meal no
more than three times during a 24 hour period, and
each meal must be separated by at least 4 hours.
2. A character that does not get at least 6 hours of
rest and/or sleep per day will have their Fatigue
maximum temporarily reduced by 1 FT / hour (or
fraction) of sleep under 6 hours. This may be recovered at the rate of 1 FT / 4 hours sleep.
3. If a character’s Endurance is less than 10, they
recover one-half of a FT point less per hour or
meal, and if their Endurance is less than 5, they
recover one less FT point. However, a character
always recovers a minimum of one-half a FT point
when resting.
4. If a character’s Endurance is from 21 to 30, they
recover an additional one-half of a FT point per
hour or meal. Each succeeding ten point Endurance
bracket carries an additional one-half FT point
bonus.
5. Fatigue loss from damage may also be recovered
by magical healing (but not the Healer skill Heal
Endurance).

4.6 Damage and Illness
Effects of Low Endurance
Unconsciousness When an entity’s Endurance
reaches 3 or less, they must make a (current EN) ×
WP check or fall unconscious; this WP check is
repeated every minute or if their EN changes.
An entity on 0 Endurance is unconscious, but stable. An entity with a full Endurance of 5 or less
does not make consciousness checks. They remain
conscious until they fall to 0 or less Endurance.
Below Zero Endurance An entity on negative
Endurance will lose one point of Fatigue (Endurance when no Fatigue remains) until the bleeding is
stanched by a Healer, or until dead. They will
continue to take damage from any further blows,
spells, grievous wounds which are bleeders, burning, etc.
When an entity is below zero Endurance they are
on the very brink of death. It takes time and skill to
tell the difference between this state and death (e.g.
empathy, DA). GMs should not let players take
advantage of out of character information when
another player’s character is below 0 Endurance.
Death When an entity’s Endurance falls below
negative one-half their full Endurance, they are
dead. Once dead, ongoing damage (e.g. poison or
bleeding) ceases but further damage may be inflicted on the body.
Endurance Recovery
There are many causes of a character losing Endurance points. However, once lost there are two
primary methods of recovering them.
Healers and Magical Healing
Healers, herbalists, potions, medicines and some
magics may aid the recovery of Endurance. The
exact effects can be found under the appropriate
skill or magic.

4 HEALTH AND FITNESS/ 5 EQUIPMENT AND MONEY
Natural Healing
The rate at which Endurance Points recover naturally primarily depends on how active the injured
being is.
If an entity is resting they regain 1 Endurance point
every three full days.
This rate is reduced to 1 / 4 days if the entity:
• takes any further EN damage
• uses more than half their FT
• does not receive adequate nourishment
If an entity is given ministrations from a
physicker’s kit, their body requires one less day to
regain an Endurance Point.
Injuries which are not quantified as Endurance
point losses or grievous injuries (e.g. hamstrung
muscles) heal at the same rate as they do in this
world.
These healing rates are based on average Endurance value of 15. The GM may chose to increase
the healing rate if an entity’s full Endurance is very
high or decrease it for a low Endurance entity.
Potions \& Unconscious Patients
An entity cannot drink a healing potion when they
are unconscious or below zero endurance but one
can be massaged down their throat. The chance of
doing this is equal to the Manual Dexterity + Perception of the person administering the potion, or if
a healer, 90 + Healer Rank. If successful then D10
per 10 points of the healing potion’s curing (round
down) will be received. If the person fails the roll,
the potion is wasted, but no harmful effects occur
to the patient.
Grievous Injuries
Endurance loss resulting from specific grievous
injuries may not be healed separately from the
underlying specific injury. When the specific injury is fully cured the related endurance is recovered automatically.

Natural Healing of Grievous Injuries
Major injuries take a long time to heal and some
will not heal naturally but require a healer. Here
are guidelines for the healing requirements of some
common major injuries.
Broken bones will knit in 4 weeks for a simple
fracture, or up to 10 weeks for a compound fracture. A bone must be properly set before the bone
may knit together.
Internal injuries an entity will usually die from
internal injuries. If the patient is comfortable, unmoving, and kept alive by a healer or physician,
internal injuries will heal 1 Endurance point per
week
Open wounds will heal at half the normal rate,
provided that they are kept free of infection. Open
wounds will leave scars.
Removed body parts will not regrow naturally.
However, the remaining wound will heal over at
quarter the normal rate, provided it is kept free
from infection.

Dry
-5%
Humid
+20%
The average temperature is ...
Below 0
+20%
1–5
+10%
30 – 40
+10%
Above 40
+20%
Some specific grievous injuries also increase the
chance of infection.
Effects of Infection
An entity with an infection will be slowly poisoned
by the infection. The damage is [D - 5] Endurance
per day, until the infection is cured. An infected
wound will not heal until the infection is cured.
Curing Infection
There are two ways to recover from infection. The
first is to tough it out. The second is to be healed
by a healer.
Toughing it out An infected character may make a
1 × Endurance check every day to recover naturally.

Magical healing of Specific Injuries Healers and
certain magics may heal specific injuries. The time
taken and effects of these magics may be found
under the appropriate skill or magic.

Healing An infected character may be cured by the
arts of a Healer or by magic. The rank at which this
is possible, and the chance of success can be found
under the appropriate skill or spell.

4.7 Infection

4.8 Conception

If a character is wounded there is the possibility
that they have become infected as a result of their
wounds.

The natural conception chances for character races
are:

An Infection Check must be performed to determine whether they are infected or not.
Becoming Infected
The chance of becoming infected depends on the
entity’s health, the type of injury, and the environment the entity is in. Modifiers are cumulative one
is applied from each category:
There is a wound which is ...
Dirty
+20%
Heavily contaminated +50%
The environment is ...

Dwarf
3%
Elf
1%
Halﬂing
4%
Hill Giant
2%
Human
6%
Orc
10%
Shapechanger 5%
Checks against the relevant chance should be made
no more often than once per 48 hours of appropriate activity.

5 Equipment and Money
5.1 Purchase of goods and items
The GM will be guided in determining the price (in
Silver Pennies) of the various goods produced by
craftsmen by the Price List (see Players Handbook
and Tables §56.1, §56.2 and §56.3). The three
factors which determine the price of finished goods
are the quality of the material used, the hours spent
in construction, and the estimated Rank of the
artisan (if one person produces the goods) or of the
overseer (if the effort is a team project). However,
if a character wishes to purchase a custom-made or
rare item, then they will have to negotiate with the
artisan (represented by the GM), and may defray
costs by providing some of the scarcer components
themselves. The barter system is acceptable when
dealing in costly or rare items.

The value of a coin is determined by its weight and
the metal of which it is made.
Name

Weight Value

Copper farthing (cf) 1/5 oz
Silver penny (sp)
1/20 oz 4 cf
Gold shilling (gs)
1/20 oz 12 sp
Truesilver guinea (tg) 1/10 oz 21 gs
Other common coins include the halfpenny, threepence, and sixpence. The values and weights of
these coins correspond to those of the Silver
Penny.

5.2 Encumbrance Modifies Agility
The weight borne by a character may temporarily
reduce the character’s Agility.
To calculate modified Agility use the Fatigue and
Encumbrance Table (§58.1) and:

14

1. Cross-reference the character’s Physical
Strength and the weight they are carrying. Clothing
(other than armour) the character is wearing does
not count towards this weight.
2. Read down this column until it intersects with
the row which reads “Agility Loss.”
3. Deduct the resulting number from the character’s Agility to give Modified Agility.
4. Re-calculate this number if there is a change in
the weight they bear.
The character’s Modified Agility is used as a basis
for determining their current TMR. A character is
considered to have a minimum Agility of 1 for all
other game functions.

\end{multicols}
